I was living in Baghdád, in the reign of the Prince of the Faithful
    El-Muntaṣir bi-lláh,[V_70] who loved the poor and indigent, and
    associated with the learned and virtuous; and it happened, one day, that
    he was incensed against ten persons, in consequence of which, he ordered
    the chief magistrate of Baghdád to bring them to him in a boat. I saw
    them, and I said within myself, These persons have assembled for nothing
    but an entertainment, and, I suppose, will pass their day in this boat
    eating and drinking; and none shall be their companion but
    myself:[V_71]--so I embarked, and mixed myself among them; and when
    they had landed on the opposite bank, the guards of the Wálee came with
    chains, and put them upon their necks, and put a chain upon my neck
    also.--Now this, O people, is it not a proof of my generosity, and of my
    paucity of speech? For I determined not to speak.--They took us,
    therefore, all together, in chains, and placed us before El-Muntaṣir
    bi-lláh, the Prince of the Faithful; whereupon he gave orders to strike
    off the heads of the ten; and the executioner struck off the heads of
    the ten, and I remained. The Khaleefeh then turning his eyes, and
    beholding me, said to the executioner, Wherefore dost thou not strike
    off the heads of all the ten? He answered, I have beheaded every one of
    the ten.--I do not think, rejoined the Khaleefeh, that thou hast
    beheaded more than nine; and this who is before me is the tenth. But the
    executioner replied, By thy beneficence, they are ten.--Count them, said
    the Khaleefeh. And they counted them; and lo, they were ten. The
    Khaleefeh then looked towards me, and said, What hath induced thee to
    be silent on this occasion; and how hast thou become included among the
    men of blood?--And when I heard the address of the Prince of the
    Faithful, I said to him, Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that I am the
    sheykh Eṣ-Ṣámit (the silent): I possess, of science, a large stock; and
    as to the gravity of my understanding, and the quickness of my
    apprehension, and the paucity of my speech, they are unbounded: my trade
    is that of a barber; and yesterday, early in the morning, I saw these
    ten men proceeding to the boat; whereupon I mixed myself with them, and
    embarked with them, thinking that they had met together for an
    entertainment; but soon it appeared that they were criminals; and the
    guards came to them, and put chains upon their necks, and upon my neck
    also they put a chain; and from the excess of my generosity I was
    silent, and spoke not: my speech was not heard on that occasion, on
    account of the excess of my generosity; and they proceeded with us until
    they stationed us before thee, and thou gavest the order to strike off
    the heads of the ten, and I remained before the executioner, and
    acquainted you not with my case. Was not this great generosity which
    compelled me to accompany them to slaughter? But throughout my life I
    have acted in this excellent manner.

    When the Khaleefeh heard my words, and knew that I was of a very
    generous character, and of few words, and not inclined to impertinence
    as this young man, whom I delivered from horrors, asserteth, he said,
    Hast thou brothers? I answered, Yes: six.--And are thy six brothers,
    said he, like thyself, distinguished by science and knowledge, and
    paucity of speech? I answered, They lived not so as to be like me: thou
    hast disparaged me by thy supposition, O Prince of the Faithful, and it
    is not proper that thou shouldst compare my brothers to me; for through
    the abundance of their speech, and the smallness of their generous
    qualities, each of them experienced a defect: the first was lame; the
    second, deprived of many of his teeth; the third, blind; the fourth,
    one-eyed; the fifth, cropped of his ears; and the sixth had both his
    lips cut off:[V_72] and think not, O Prince of the Faithful, that I
    am a man of many words: nay, I must prove to thee that I am of a more
    generous character than they; and each of them met with a particular
    adventure, in consequence of which he experienced a defect: if thou
    please, I will relate their stories to thee.

    [Illustration]


    THE BARBER'S STORY OF HIS FIRST BROTHER.

    Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that the first (who was named
    El-Baḳbooḳ) was the lame one. He practised the art of a tailor in
    Baghdád, and used to sew in a shop which he hired of a man possessing
    great wealth, who lived over the shop, and who had, in the lower part of
    his house, a mill. And as my lame brother was sitting in his shop one
    day, sewing, he raised his head, and saw a woman like the rising full
    moon, at a projecting window of the house, looking at the people passing
    by; and as soon as he beheld her, his heart was entangled by her love.
    He passed that day gazing at her, and neglecting his occupation, until
    the evening; and on the following morning he opened his shop, and sat
    down to sew; but every time that he sewed a stitch, he looked towards
    the window; and in this state he continued, sewing nothing sufficient to
    earn a piece of silver.[V_73]

    On the third day he seated himself again in his place, looking towards
    the woman; and she saw him, and, perceiving that he had become enslaved
    by her love, laughed in his face, and he, in like manner, laughed in her
    face. She then disappeared from before him, and sent to him her
    slave-girl, with a wrapper containing a piece of red flowered silk; and
    the girl, coming to him, said to him, My mistress saluteth thee, and
    desireth thee to cut out for her, with the hand of skill, a shirt of
    this piece, and to sew it beautifully. So he answered, I hear and
    obey:--and he cut out for her the shirt, and finished the sewing of it
    on that day; and on the following day the slave-girl came to him again;
    and said to him, My mistress saluteth thee, and saith to thee, How didst
    thou pass last night?--for she tasted not sleep, from her passion for
    thee.--She then placed before him a piece of yellow satin, and said to
    him, My mistress desireth thee to cut out for her, of this piece, two
    pairs of trousers, and to make them this day. He replied, I hear and
    obey. Salute her with abundant salutations, and say to her, Thy slave is
    submissive to thine order, and command him to do whatsoever thou
    wilt.--He then busied himself with the cutting out, and used all
    diligence in sewing the two pairs of trousers; and presently the woman
    looked out at him from the window, and saluted him by a sign, now
    casting down her eyes, and now smiling in his face, so that he imagined
    he should soon obtain possession of her. After this, she disappeared
    from before him, and the slave-girl came to him; so he delivered to her
    the two pairs of trousers, and she took them and departed: and when the
    night came, he threw himself upon his bed, and remained turning himself
    over in restlessness until the morning.

    On the following day, the master of the house came to my brother,
    bringing some linen, and said to him, Cut out and make this into shirts
    for me. He replied, I hear and obey:--and ceased not from his work until
    he had cut out twenty shirts by the time of nightfall, without having
    tasted food. The man then said to him, How much is thy hire for
    this?--but my brother answered not; and the damsel made a sign to him
    that he should receive nothing, though he was absolutely in want of a
    single copper coin. For three days he continued scarcely eating or
    drinking anything, in his diligence to accomplish his work, and when he
    had finished it, he went to deliver the shirts.

    Now the young woman had acquainted her husband with the state of my
    brother's mind, but my brother knew not this; and she planned with her
    husband to employ him in sewing without remuneration, and moreover to
    amuse themselves by laughing at him: so, when he had finished all the
    work that they gave him, they contrived a plot against him, and married
    him to their slave-girl; and on the night when he desired to introduce
    himself to her, they said to him, Pass this night in the mill, and
    to-morrow thou shalt enjoy happiness. My brother, therefore, thinking
    that their intention was good, passed the night in the mill alone.
    Meanwhile, the husband of the young woman went to the miller, and
    instigated him by signs to make my brother turn the mill. The miller,
    accordingly, went in to him at midnight, and began to exclaim, Verily
    this bull is lazy, while there is a great quantity of wheat, and the
    owners of the flour are demanding it: I will therefore yoke him in the
    mill, that he may finish the grinding of the flour:--and so saying, he
    yoked my brother, and thus he kept him until near morning, when the
    owner of the house came, and saw him yoked in the mill, and the miller
    flogging him with the whip; and he left him, and retired. After this,
    the slave-girl to whom he had been contracted in marriage came to him
    early in the morning, and, having unbound him from the mill, said to
    him, Both I and my mistress have been distressed by this which hath
    befallen thee, and we have participated in the burden of thy sorrow. But
    he had no tongue wherewith to answer her, by reason of the severity of
    the flogging. He then returned to his house; and lo, the sheykh who had
    performed the marriage-contract came and saluted him, saying, May God
    prolong thy life! May thy marriage be blessed!--May God not preserve the
    liar! returned my brother: thou thousandfold villain! By Allah, I went
    only to turn the mill in the place of the bull until the morning.--Tell
    me thy story, said the sheykh:--and my brother told him what had
    happened to him: upon which the sheykh said, Thy star agreeth not with
    hers: but if thou desire that I should change for thee the mode of the
    contract, I will change it for another better than it, that thy star may
    agree with hers.[V_74]--See then, replied my brother, if thou hast
    any other contrivance to employ.

    My brother then left him, and repaired again to his shop, hoping that
    somebody might give him some work, with the profit of which he might
    obtain his food; and lo, the slave-girl came to him. She had conspired
    with her mistress to play him this trick, and said to him, Verily, my
    mistress is longing for thee, and she hath gone up to look at thy face
    from the window. And my brother had scarcely heard these words when she
    looked out at him from the window, and, weeping, said, Wherefore hast
    thou cut short the intercourse between us and thee? But he returned her
    no answer: so she swore to him that all that had happened to him in the
    mill was not with her consent; and when my brother beheld her beauty and
    loveliness, the troubles that had befallen him became effaced from his
    memory, and he accepted her excuse, and rejoiced at the sight of her. He
    saluted her, therefore, and conversed with her, and then sat a while at
    his work; after which the slave-girl came to him, and said, My mistress
    saluteth thee, and informeth thee that her husband hath determined to
    pass this next night in the house of one of his intimate friends;
    wherefore, when he hath gone thither, do thou come to her.--Now the
    husband of the young woman had said to her, How shall we contrive when
    he cometh to thee that I may take him and drag him before the Wálee? She
    replied, Let me then play him a trick, and involve him in a disgrace for
    which he shall be paraded throughout this city as an example to
    others:--and my brother knew nothing of the craftiness of women.
    Accordingly, at the approach of evening, the slave-girl came to him,
    and, taking him by the hand, returned with him to her mistress, who said
    to him, Verily, O my master, I have been longing for thee.--Hasten then,
    said he, to give me a kiss, first of all. And his words were not
    finished, when the young woman's husband came in from his neighbour's
    house, and, seizing my brother, exclaimed to him, By Allah, I will not
    loose thee but in the presence of the chief magistrate of the police. My
    brother humbled himself before him; but, without listening to him, he
    took him to the house of the Wálee, who flogged him with whips, and
    mounted him upon a camel, and conveyed him through the streets of the
    city, the people crying out, This is the recompense of him who breaketh
    into the ḥareems of others!--and he fell from the camel, and his leg
    broke: so he became lame. The Wálee then banished him from the city; and
    he went forth, not knowing whither to turn his steps: but I, though
    enraged, overtook him, and brought him back; and I have taken upon
    myself to provide him with meat and drink unto the present day.

    The Khaleefeh laughed at my story, and exclaimed, Thou hast spoken
    well:--but I replied, I will not accept this honour until thou hast
    listened to me while I relate to thee what happened to the rest of my
    brothers; and think me not a man of many words.--Tell me, said the
    Khaleefeh, what happened to all thy brothers, and grace my ears with
    these nice particulars: I beg thee to employ exuberance of diction in
    thy relation of these pleasant tales.

    [Illustration]

    [Illustration]


    THE BARBER'S STORY OF HIS SECOND BROTHER.

    So I said, Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that my second brother, whose
    name was El-Heddár,[V_75] was going one day to transact some
    business, when an old woman met him, and said to him, O man, stop a
    little, that I may propose to thee a thing, which, if it please thee,
    thou shalt do for me. My brother, therefore, stopped; and she said to
    him, I will guide thee to a thing, and rightly direct thee to it, on the
    condition that thy words be not many. So he said, Communicate what thou
    hast to tell me:--and she proceeded thus:--What sayest thou of a
    handsome house, with running water, and fruit and wine, and a beautiful
    face to behold, and a smooth cheek to kiss, and an elegant form to
    embrace; and to enjoy all these pleasures without interruption? Now, if
    thou wilt act agreeably with the condition that I have imposed upon
    thee, thou wilt see prosperity.--When my brother had heard her words, he
    said to her, O my mistress, how is it that thou hast sought me out in
    preference to all the rest of the creation for this affair; and what is
    there in me that hath pleased thee? She replied, Did I not say to thee
    that thou must not be a person of many words? Be silent then, and come
    with me.

    The old woman then went her way, my brother following her, eager to
    enjoy the pleasures which she had described to him, until they had
    entered a spacious house, when she went up with him to an upper story,
    and my brother perceived that he was in a beautiful palace, in which he
    beheld four damsels, than whom none more lovely had ever been seen,
    singing with voices that would charm a heart as insensible as stone. One
    of these damsels drank a cup of wine; and my brother said to her, May it
    be attended with health and vigour!--and advanced to wait upon her; but
    she prevented his doing so, giving him to drink a cup of wine; and as
    soon as he had drunk it, she slapped him on his neck. When he found that
    she treated him thus, he went out from the chamber in anger, and with
    many words; but the old woman, following him, made a sign to him with
    her eye that he should return: so he returned, and seated himself,
    without speaking; and upon this, the damsel slapped him again upon the
    back of his neck until he became senseless; after which, recovering, he
    withdrew again. The old woman, however, overtook him, and said to him,
    Wait a little, and thou shalt attain thy wish.--How many times, said he,
    shall I wait a little before I attain it? The old woman answered, When
    she hath become exhilarated with wine thou shalt obtain her favour. He
    therefore returned to his place, and resumed his seat. All the four
    damsels then arose, and the old woman directed them to divest my brother
    of his outer clothes, and to sprinkle some rose-water upon his face; and
    when they had done so, the most beautiful one among them said to him,
    May Allah exalt thee to honour! Thou hast entered my abode, and if thou
    have patience to submit to my requisitions, thou wilt attain thy
    wish.--O my mistress, he replied, I am thy slave, and under thy
    authority.--Know then, said she, that I am devotedly fond of frolic, and
    he who complieth with my demands will obtain my favour. Then she ordered
    the other damsels to sing; and they sang so that their hearers were in
    an ecstasy; after which the chief lady said to one of the other damsels,
    Take thy master, and do what is required, and bring him back to me
    immediately.

    Accordingly, she took him away, ignorant of that which she was about to
    do; and the old woman came to him, and said, Be patient; for there
    remaineth but little to do. He then turned towards the damsel, and the
    old woman said to him, Be patient: thou hast almost succeeded, and there
    remaineth but one thing, which is, to shave thy beard.--How, said he,
    shall I do that which will disgrace me among the people? The old woman
    answered, She desireth this only to make thee like a beardless youth,
    that there may be nothing on thy face to prick her; for her heart is
    affected with a violent love for thee. Be patient, therefore, and thou
    shalt attain thy desire.--So my brother patiently submitted to the
    damsel's directions: his beard was shaven, and he was shorn also of his
    eyebrows and mustaches, and his face was painted red, before the damsel
    took him back to the chief lady, who, when she saw him, was at first
    frightened at him, and then laughed until she fell backwards, and
    exclaimed, O my master, thou hast gained me by these proofs of thine
    amiable manners! She then conjured him by her life to arise and dance;
    and he did so; and there was not a single cushion in the chamber that
    she did not throw at him. In like manner also the other damsels threw at
    him various things, such as oranges, and limes, and citrons, until he
    fell down senseless from the pelting, while they slapped him incessantly
    upon the back of his neck, and cast things in his face. But at length
    the old woman said to him, Now thou hast attained thy wish. Know that
    there remaineth to thee no more beating, nor doth there remain for thee
    to do more than one thing, namely, this: it is her custom, when she is
    under the influence of wine, to suffer no one to come near her until she
    hath taken off her outer clothes; thou, being prepared in the like
    manner, must run after her, and she will run before thee as though she
    were flying from thee; but cease not to follow her from place to place
    until thou overtake her. He arose, therefore, and did so: the lady ran
    before, and as he followed her, she passed from chamber to chamber, and
    he still ran after her. At last he heard her utter a slight sound as she
    ran before him, and, continuing his pursuit, he suddenly found himself
    in the midst of the street.

    This street was in the market of the leather-sellers, who were then
    crying skins for sale; and when the people there collected saw him in
    this condition, almost naked, with shaven beard and eyebrows and
    mustaches, and with his face painted red, they shouted at him, and
    raised a loud laugh, and some of them beat him with the skins until he
    became insensible. They then placed him upon an ass, and conducted him
    to the Wálee, who exclaimed, What is this?--They answered, This
    descended upon us from the house of the Wezeer, in this condition. And
    the Wálee inflicted upon him a hundred lashes, and banished him from the
    city: but I went out after him, and brought him back privately into the
    city, and allotted him a maintenance. Had it not been for my generous
    disposition, I had not borne with such a person.

    [Illustration]


    THE BARBER'S STORY OF HIS THIRD BROTHER.

    As to my third brother (the blind man, Baḳbaḳ), who was also surnamed
    Ḳuffeh,[V_76] fate and destiny impelled him one day to a large
    house, and he knocked at the door, hoping that its master would answer
    him, and that he might beg of him a trifle. The owner called out, Who is
    at the door?--but my brother answered not; and then heard him call with
    a loud voice, Who is this? Still, however, he returned him no answer;
    and he heard the sounds of his footsteps approaching until he came to
    the door and opened it, when he said to him, What dost thou desire? My
    brother answered, Something for the sake of God, whose name be
    exalted!--Art thou blind? said the man; and my brother answered,
    Yes.--Then give me thy hand rejoined the master of the house;--so my
    brother stretched forth to him his hand, and the man took him into the
    house, and led him up from stair-case to stair-case until he had
    ascended to the highest platform of the roof: my brother thinking that
    he was going to give him some food or money: and when he had arrived at
    this highest terrace, of his house, the owner said, What dost thou
    desire, O blind man!--I desire something, he answered again, for the
    sake of God, whose name be exalted!--May God, replied the man, open to
    thee some other way!--What is this! exclaimed my brother: couldst thou
    not tell me so when I was below?--Thou vilest of the vile! retorted the
    other: why didst thou not ask of me something for the sake of God when
    thou heardest my voice the first time, when thou wast knocking at the
    door?--What then, said my brother, dost thou mean to do to me?--The man
    of the house answered, I have nothing to give thee.--Then take me down
    the stairs, said my brother. The man replied, The way is before thee. So
    my brother made his way to the stairs, and continued descending until
    there remained, between him and the door, twenty steps, when his foot
    slipped and he fell, and, rolling down, broke his head.[V_77]

    He went forth, not knowing whither to direct his steps, and presently
    there met him two blind men, his companions, who said to him, What hath
    happened to thee this day? My brother, therefore, related to them the
    event that had just befallen him: and then said to them, O my brothers,
    I desire to take a portion of the money now in our possession, to expend
    it upon myself.--Now the owner of the house which he had just before
    entered had followed him to acquaint himself with his proceedings, and
    without my brother's knowledge he walked behind him until the latter
    entered his abode; when he went in after him, still unknown. My brother
    then sat waiting for his companions; and when they came in to him, he
    said to them, Shut the door, and search the room, lest any stranger have
    followed us. When the intruder, therefore, heard what he said, he arose,
    and clung to a rope that was attached to the ceiling; and the blind men
    went feeling about the whole of the chamber, and, finding no one,
    returned and seated themselves by my brother, and brought forth their
    money, and counted it; and lo, it was more than ten thousand pieces of
    silver. Having done this, they laid it in a corner of the room, and each
    of them took of the surplus of that sum as much as he wanted, and they
    buried the ten thousand pieces of silver in the earth; after which, they
    placed before themselves some food, and sat eating; but my brother heard
    the sound of a stranger by his side, and said to his friends, Is there a
    stranger among us? Then stretching forth his hand, it grasped the hand
    of the intruder; whereupon he cried out to his companions, saying, Here
    is a stranger!--and they fell upon him with blows until they were tired,
    when they shouted out, O Muslims![V_78] a thief hath come in upon
    us, and desireth to take our property!--and immediately a number of
    persons collected around them.

    Upon this, the stranger whom they accused of being a thief shut his
    eyes, feigned to be blind like themselves, so that no one who saw him
    doubted him to be so; and shouted, O Muslims! I demand protection of
    Allah and the Sulṭán! I demand protection of Allah and the Wálee! I
    demand protection of Allah and the Emeer! for I have important
    information to give to the Emeer!--and before they could collect their
    thoughts, the officers of the Wálee surrounded them and took them all,
    including my brother, and conducted them before their master. The Wálee
    said, What is your story?--and the stranger replied, Hear my words, O
    Wálee; the truth of our case will not become known to thee but by means
    of beating;[V_79] and if thou wilt, begin by beating me before my
    companions. The Wálee therefore said, Throw down this man, and flog him
    with whips:--and accordingly they threw him down and flogged him; and
    when the stripes tortured him, he opened one of his eyes; and after they
    had continued the flogging a little longer, he opened his other eye;
    upon which the Wálee exclaimed, What meaneth this conduct, O thou
    villain?--Grant me indemnity, replied the man, and I will acquaint
    thee:--and the Wálee having granted his request, he said, We four
    pretend that we are blind, and, intruding among other people, enter
    their houses, and see their women, and employ stratagems to corrupt
    them, and to obtain money from them. We have acquired, by these means,
    vast gain, amounting to ten thousand pieces of silver; and I said to my
    companions, Give me my due, two thousand and five hundred; and they rose
    against me and beat me, and took my property. I beg protection,
    therefore, of Allah and of thee; and thou art more deserving of my share
    than they. If thou desire to know the truth of that which I have said,
    flog each of them more than thou hast flogged me, and he will open his
    eyes.

    So the Wálee immediately gave orders to flog them, and the first of them
    who suffered was my brother. They continued beating him until he almost
    died; when the Wálee said to them, O ye scoundrels! do ye deny the
    gracious gift of God, feigning yourselves to be blind? My brother
    exclaimed, Alláh! Alláh! Alláh! there is none among us who seeth!--They
    then threw him down again, and ceased not to beat him until he became
    insensible, when the Wálee said, Leave him until he shall have
    recovered, and then give him a third flogging:--and in the meantime, he
    gave orders to flog his companions, to give each of them more than three
    hundred stripes; while the seeing man said to them, Open your eyes, or
    they will flog you again after this time. Then addressing himself to the
    Wálee, he said, Send with me some person to bring thee the property; for
    these men will not open their eyes, fearing to be disgraced before the
    spectators. And the Wálee sent with him a man, who brought him the
    money; and he took it, and gave to the informer, out of it, two
    thousand and five hundred pieces of silver, according to the share which
    he claimed, in spite of the others (retaining the rest), and banished
    from the city my brother and the two other men; but I went forth, O
    Prince of the Faithful, and, having overtaken my brother, asked him
    respecting his sufferings; and he acquainted me with that which I have
    related unto thee. I then brought him back secretly into the city, and
    allotted him a supply of food and drink as long as he lived.

    The Khaleefeh laughed at my story, and said, Give him a present, and let
    him go:--but I replied, I will receive nothing until I have declared to
    the Prince of the Faithful what happened to the rest of my brothers, and
    made it manifest to him that I am a man of few words:--whereupon the
    Khaleefeh said, Crack our ears, then, with thy ridiculous stories, and
    continue to us thy disclosure of vices and misdeeds. So I proceeded
    thus:--

    [Illustration]

    [Illustration]


    THE BARBER'S STORY OF HIS FOURTH BROTHER.

    My fourth brother, O Prince of the Faithful, was the one-eyed (named
    El-Kooz el-Aṣwánee): he was a butcher in Baghdád, and both sold meat and
    reared lambs; and the great and the rich had recourse to him to purchase
    of him their meat; so that he amassed great wealth, and became possessor
    of cattle and houses. Thus he continued to prosper for a long time; and
    as he was in his shop, one day, there accosted him an old man with a
    long beard, who handed to him some money, saying, Give me some meat for
    it. So he took the money, and gave him the meat; and when the old man
    had gone away, my brother looked at the money which he had payed him,
    and, seeing that it was of a brilliant whiteness, put it aside by
    itself. This old man continued to repair to him during a period of five
    months, and my brother always threw his money into a chest by itself;
    after which period he desired to take it out for the purpose of buying
    some sheep; but on opening the chest, he found all the contents
    converted into white paper, clipped round; and he slapped his face, and
    cried out; whereupon a number of people collected around him, and he
    related to them his story, at which they were astonished.

    He then went again, as usual, into his shop, and, having killed a ram,
    and hung it up within the shop, he cut off some of the meat, and
    suspended it outside, saying within himself, Perhaps now this old man
    will come again, and if so, I will seize him:--and very soon after, the
    old man approached with his money; upon which my brother arose, and,
    laying hold upon him, began to cry out, O Muslims, come to my aid, and
    hear what this scoundrel hath done unto me! But when the old man heard
    his words, he said to him, Which will be more agreeable to thee--that
    thou abstain from disgracing me, or that I disgrace thee, before the
    people?--For what wilt thou disgrace me? said my brother. The old man
    answered, For thy selling human flesh for mutton.--Thou liest, thou
    accursed! exclaimed my brother.--None is accursed, rejoined the old man,
    but he who hath a man suspended in his shop. My brother said, If it be
    as thou hast asserted, my property and blood shall be lawful to
    thee:--and immediately the old man exclaimed, O ye people here
    assembled! verily this butcher slaughtereth human beings, and selleth
    their flesh for mutton; and if ye desire to know the truth of my
    assertion, enter his shop! So the people rushed upon his shop, and
    beheld the ram converted into a man, hung up; and they laid hold upon my
    brother, crying out against him, Thou infidel! Thou scoundrel!--and
    those who had been his dearest friends turned upon him and beat him; and
    the old man gave him a blow upon his eye, and knocked it out. The people
    then carried the carcass, and took with them my brother, to the chief
    magistrate of the police; and the old man said to him, O Emeer, this man
    slaughtereth human beings, and selleth their flesh for mutton; and we
    have therefore brought him to thee: arise, then, and perform the
    requisition of God, whose might and glory be extolled! Upon this, the
    magistrate thrust back my brother from him, and, refusing to listen to
    what he would have said, ordered that five hundred blows of a staff
    should be inflicted upon him, and took all his property. Had it not been
    for the great amount of his wealth, he had put him to death.[V_80]
    He then banished him from the city.

    My brother, therefore, went forth in a state of distraction, not knowing
    what course to pursue; but he journeyed onwards until he arrived at a
    great city, where he thought fit to settle as a shoemaker: so he opened
    a shop, and sat there working for his subsistence. And one day he went
    forth on some business, and, hearing the neighing of horses, he inquired
    respecting the cause, and was told that the King was going forth to
    hunt; whereupon he went to amuse himself with the sight of the
    procession: but the King happening to look on one side, his eye met that
    of my brother, and immediately he hung down his head, and exclaimed, I
    seek refuge with God from the evil of this day! He then turned aside the
    bridle of his horse, and rode back, and all his troops returned with
    him; after which, he ordered his pages to run after my brother, and to
    beat him; and they did so, giving him so severe a beating that he
    almost died; and he knew not the cause. He returned to his abode in a
    miserable plight, and afterwards went and related his misfortune to one
    of the King's attendants, who laughed at the recital until he fell
    backwards, and said to him, O my brother, the King cannot endure the
    sight of a one-eyed person, and especially when the defect is that of
    the left eye;[V_81] for in this case, he faileth not to put the
    person to death.

    When my brother heard these words, he determined to fly from that city;
    and forthwith departed from it, and repaired to another city, where
    there was no King. Here he remained a long time; and after this, as he
    was meditating upon his adventure in the former city, he went out one
    day to amuse himself, and heard again the neighing of horses behind him;
    upon which he exclaimed, The decree of God hath come to pass! and ran
    away, seeking for a place in which to conceal himself; but he found
    none, until, continuing his search, he saw a door set up as a barricade:
    so he pushed this, and it fell down; and, entering the doorway, he
    beheld a long passage, into which he advanced. Suddenly, however, two
    men laid hold upon him, and exclaimed, Praise be to God who hath enabled
    us to take thee, O thou enemy of God! For these three nights thou hast
    suffered us to enjoy neither quiet nor sleep, and we have found no
    repose: nay, thou hast given us a foretaste of death!--O men, said my
    brother, what hath happened unto you? They answered, Thou keepest a
    watch upon us, and desirest to disgrace us, and to disgrace the master
    of the house! Is it not enough for thee that thou hast reduced him to
    poverty, thou and thy companions? Produce now the knife wherewith thou
    threatenest us every night.--And so saying, they searched him, and found
    upon his waist the knife with which he cut the shoe-leather.--O men, he
    exclaimed, fear God in your treatment of me, and know that my story is
    wonderful. They said, What then is thy story? So he related it to them,
    in the hope that they would liberate him: but they believed not what he
    said; and, instead of shewing him any regard, they beat him, and tore
    his clothes; whereupon, his body becoming exposed to their view, they
    discovered upon his sides the marks of beating with miḳra'ahs, and
    exclaimed, O wretch! these scars bear testimony to thy guilt. They then
    conducted him before the Wálee, while he said within himself, I am
    undone for my transgressions, and none can deliver me but God, whose
    name be exalted! And when he was brought before the Wálee, the
    magistrate said to him, O thou scoundrel! nothing but a heinous crime
    hath occasioned thy having been beaten with miḳra'ahs:--and he caused a
    hundred lashes to be inflicted upon him; after which, they mounted him
    upon a camel, and proclaimed before him, This is the recompense of him
    who breaketh into men's houses!--But I had already heard of his
    misfortunes, and gone forth, and found him; and I accompanied him about
    the city while they were making this proclamation, until they left him;
    when I took him, and brought him back secretly into Baghdád, and
    apportioned him a daily allowance of food and drink.

    [Illustration]

    [Illustration]


    THE BARBER'S STORY OF HIS FIFTH BROTHER.[V_82]

    My fifth brother (El-Feshshár[V_83]) was cropped of his ears, O
    Prince of the Faithful. He was a pauper, who begged alms by night, and
    subsisted upon what he thus acquired by day: and our father was a very
    old man, and he fell sick and died, leaving to us seven hundred pieces
    of silver, of which each of us took his portion; namely, a hundred
    pieces. Now my fifth brother, when he had received his share, was
    perplexed, not knowing what to do with it; but while he was in this
    state, it occurred to his mind to buy with it all kinds of articles of
    glass, and to sell them and make profit; so he bought glass with his
    hundred pieces of silver, and put it in a large tray, and sat upon an
    elevated place, to sell it, leaning his back against a wall. And as he
    sat, he meditated, and said within himself, Verily my whole stock
    consisteth of this glass: I will sell it for two hundred pieces of
    silver; and with the two hundred I will buy other glass, which I will
    sell for four hundred; and thus I will continue buying and selling until
    I have acquired great wealth. Then with this I will purchase all kinds
    of merchandise and essences and jewels, and so obtain vast gain. After
    that, I will buy a handsome house, and memlooks, and horses, and gilded
    saddles; and I will eat and drink; and I will not leave in the city a
    single female singer but I will have her brought to my house that I may
    hear her songs.--All this he calculated with the tray of glass lying
    before him.--Then, said he, I will send all the female betrothers to
    seek in marriage for me the daughters of Kings and Wezeers; and I will
    demand as my wife the daughter of the chief Wezeer;[V_84] for I
    have heard that she is endowed with perfect beauty and surprising
    loveliness: and I will give as her dowry a thousand pieces of gold. If
    her father consent, my wish is attained; and if he consent not, I will
    take her by force, in spite of him: and when I have come back to my
    house, I will buy ten young eunuchs, and I will purchase the apparel of
    Kings and Sulṭáns, and cause to be made for me a saddle of gold set with
    jewels: after which I will ride every day upon a horse, with slaves
    behind me and before me,[V_85] and go about through the streets and
    markets to amuse myself, while the people will salute me and pray for
    me.[V_86] Then I will pay a visit to the Wezeer, who is the father
    of the maiden, with memlooks behind me and before me, and on my right
    hand and on my left; and when he seeth me, he will rise to me, in
    humility, and seat me in his own place; and he himself will sit down
    below me,[V_87] because I am his son-in-law. I will then order one
    of the servants to bring a purse containing the pieces of gold which
    compose the dowry; and he will place it before the Wezeer; and I will
    add to it another purse, that he may know my manly spirit and excessive
    generosity, and that the world is contemptible in my eye: and when he
    addresseth me with ten words, I will answer him with two. And I will
    return to my house; and when any person cometh to me from the house of
    the Wezeer, I will clothe him with a rich dress: but if any come with a
    present, I will return it: I will certainly not accept it.[V_88]
    Then, on the night of the bridal display, I will attire myself in the
    most magnificent of my dresses, and sit upon a mattress covered with
    silk; and when my wife cometh to me, like the full moon, decked with her
    ornaments and apparel, I will command her to stand before me as stands
    the timid and the abject; and I will not look at her, on account of the
    haughtiness of my spirit and the gravity of my wisdom; so that the maids
    will say, O our master and our lord, may we be thy sacrifice! This thy
    wife, or rather thy handmaid, awaiteth thy kind regard, and is standing
    before thee: then graciously bestow on her one glance; for the posture
    hath become painful to her.[V_89]--Upon this, I will raise my
    head, and look at her with one glance, and again incline my head
    downwards; and thus I will do until the ceremony of displaying her is
    finished; whereupon they will conduct her to the sleeping-chamber; and I
    will rise from my place, and go to another apartment, and put on my
    night-dress, and go to the chamber in which she is sitting, where I will
    seat myself upon the deewán; but I will not look towards her. The
    tire-women will urge me to approach her; but I will not hear their
    words, and will order some of the attendants to bring a purse containing
    five hundred pieces of gold for them, and command them to retire from
    the chamber.[V_90] And when they have gone, I will seat myself by
    the side of the bride; but with averted countenance, that she may say,
    Verily this is a man of a haughty spirit. Then her mother will come to
    me, and will kiss my hands, and say to me, O my master, look upon thy
    handmaid with the eye of mercy; for she is submissively standing before
    thee. But I will return her no answer. And she will kiss my feet, again
    and again, and will say, O my master, my daughter is young, and hath
    seen no man but thee; and if she experience from thee repugnance, her
    heart will break: incline to her, therefore, and speak to her, and calm
    her mind. And upon this I will look at her through the corner of my eye,
    and command her to remain standing before me, that she may taste the
    savour of humiliation, and know that I am the Sulṭán of the age. Then
    her mother will say to me, O my master, this is thy handmaid: have
    compassion upon her, and be gracious to her:--and she will order her to
    fill a cup with wine, and to put it to my mouth. So her daughter will
    say, O my lord, I conjure thee by Allah that thou reject not the cup
    from thy slave; for verily I am thy slave. But I will make her no
    reply; and she will urge me to take it, and will say, It must be
    drunk:--and will put it to my mouth: and upon this, I will shake my hand
    in her face, and spurn her with my foot, and do thus.--So saying, he
    kicked the tray of glass, which, being upon a place elevated above the
    ground, fell, and all that was in it broke: there escaped nothing: and
    he cried out and said, All this is the result of my pride! And he
    slapped his face, and tore his clothes; the passengers gazing at him,
    while he wept, and exclaimed, Ah! O my grief!

    [Illustration]

    [Illustration]

    [Illustration]

    The people were now repairing to perform the Friday-prayers; and some
    merely cast their eyes at him, while others noticed him not: but while
    he was in this state, deprived of his whole property, and weeping
    without intermission, a female approached him, on her way to attend the
    Friday-prayers: she was of admirable loveliness; the odour of musk was
    diffused from her; under her was a mule with a stuffed saddle covered
    with gold-embroidered silk; and with her was a number of servants; and
    when she saw the broken glass, and my brother's state and his tears, she
    was moved with pity for him, and asked respecting his case. She was
    answered, He had a tray of glass, by the sale of which to obtain his
    subsistence and it is broken, and he is afflicted as thou seest:--and
    upon this, she called to one of the servants, saying, Give what thou
    hast with thee to this poor man. So he gave him a purse, and he took it,
    and when he had opened it, he found in it five hundred pieces of gold,
    whereupon he almost died from excessive joy, and offered up prayers for
    his benefactress.

    He returned to his house a rich man, and sat reflecting, and lo, a
    person knocked at the door: he rose, therefore, and opened it; and
    beheld an old woman whom he knew not, and she said to him, O my son,
    know that the time of prayer hath almost expired, and I am not prepared
    by ablution; wherefore I beg that thou wilt admit me into thy house,
    that I may perform it. He replied, I hear and obey;--and, retiring
    within, gave her permission to enter; his mind still wandering from joy
    on account of the gold; and when she had finished the ablution, she
    approached the spot where he was sitting, and there performed the
    prayers of two rek'ahs. She then offered up a supplication for my
    brother; and he thanked her, and offered her two pieces of gold; but
    when she saw this, she exclaimed, Extolled be God's perfection! Verily I
    wonder at the person who fell in love with thee in thy beggarly
    condition! Take back thy money from me, and if thou want it not, return
    it to her who gave it thee when thy glass broke.--O my mother, said he,
    how can I contrive to obtain access to her? She answered, O my son, she
    hath an affection for thee; but she is the wife of an affluent man; take
    then with thee all thy money, and when thou art with her be not
    deficient in courteousness and agreeable words; so shalt thou obtain of
    her favours and her wealth whatever thou shalt desire. My brother,
    therefore, took all the gold, and arose and went with the old woman,
    hardly believing what she had told him; and she proceeded, and my
    brother behind her, until they arrived at a great door, at which she
    knocked; whereupon a Greek damsel came and opened the door, and the old
    woman entered, ordering my brother to do the same. He did so, and found
    himself in a large house, where he beheld a great furnished chamber,
    with curtains hung in it; and, seating himself there, he put down the
    gold before him, and placed his turban on his knees;[V_91] and
    scarcely had he done so, when there came to him a damsel, the like of
    whom had never been seen, attired in most magnificent apparel. My
    brother stood up at her approach; and when she beheld him, she laughed
    in his face, and rejoiced at his visit: then going to the door, she
    locked it; after which she returned to my brother, and took his hand,
    and both of them went together into a private chamber, carpeted with
    various kinds of silk, where my brother sat down, and she seated herself
    by his side, and toyed with him for a considerable time. She then rose,
    saying to him, Move not from this place until I return to thee;--and was
    absent from him for a short period;--and as my brother was waiting for
    her, there came in to him a black slave, of gigantic stature, with a
    drawn sword, the brightness of which dazzled the sight; and he exclaimed
    to my brother. Wo to thee! Who brought thee to this place? Thou vilest
    of men! Thou misbegotten wretch, and nursling of impurity!--My brother
    was unable to make any reply; his tongue was instantly tied; and the
    slave laid hold upon him, and stripped him, and struck him more than
    eighty blows with the flat of his sword, until he fell sprawling upon
    the floor; when he retired from him, concluding that he was dead, and
    uttered a great cry, so that the earth trembled, and the place resounded
    at his voice, saying, Where is El-Meleeḥah?[V_92]--upon which a
    girl came to him, holding a handsome tray containing salt; and with this
    she forthwith stuffed the flesh-wounds with which my brother's skin was
    gashed until they gaped open; but he moved not, fearing the slave would
    discover that he was alive, and kill him. The girl then went away, and
    the slave uttered another cry, like the first, whereupon the old woman
    came to my brother, and, dragging him by the feet to a deep and dark
    vault, threw him into it upon a heap of slain.[V_93] In this place
    he remained for two whole days; and God (whose perfection be extolled!)
    made the salt to be the means of preserving his life, by stanching the
    flow of blood from his veins; so, when he found that he had strength
    sufficient to move, he arose, and, opening a shutter in the wall,
    emerged from the place of the slain; and God (to whom be ascribed all
    might and glory!) granted him his protection. He therefore proceeded in
    the darkness, and concealed himself in the passage until the morning,
    when the old woman went forth to seek another victim, and my brother,
    going out after her, without her knowledge, returned to his house.

    [Illustration]

    He now occupied himself with the treatment of his wounds until he was
    restored; and continued to watch for the old woman, and constantly saw
    her taking men, one after another, and conducting them to the same
    house. But he uttered not a word on the subject; and when his health
    returned, and his strength was completely renewed, he took a piece of
    rag, and made of it a purse, which he filled with pieces of glass: he
    then tied it to his waist, and disguised himself so that no one would
    know him, in the dress of a foreigner; and, taking a sword, placed it
    within his clothes; and as soon as he saw the old woman, he said to her,
    in the dialect of a foreigner, Old woman, hast thou a pair of scales fit
    for weighing nine hundred pieces of gold? The old woman answered, I have
    a young son, a money-changer, and he hath all kinds of scales; therefore
    accompany me to him before he go forth from his abode, that he may weigh
    for thee thy gold. So my brother said, Walk on before me:--and she went,
    and my brother followed her until she arrived at the door, and knocked;
    upon which the girl came out, and laughed in his face; and the old woman
    said to her, I have brought you to-day some fat meat. The girl then took
    my brother's hand, and conducted him into the house (the same which he
    had entered before), and after she had sat with him a short time, she
    rose, saying to him, Quit not this place until I return to thee:--and
    she retired; and my brother had remained not long after when the slave
    came to him with the drawn sword, and said to him, Rise, thou unlucky!
    So my brother rose, and, as the slave walked before him, he put his hand
    to the sword which was concealed beneath his clothes, and struck the
    slave with it, and cut off his head; after which he dragged him by his
    feet to the vault, and called out, Where is El-Meleeḥah? The slave-girl,
    therefore, came, having in her hand the tray containing the salt; but
    when she saw my brother with the sword in his hand, she turned back and
    fled: my brother, however, overtook her, and struck off her head. He
    then called out, Where is the old woman?--and she came; and he said to
    her, Dost thou know me, O malevolent hag? She answered, No, O my
    lord.--I am, said he, the man who had the pieces of gold, and in whose
    house thou performedst the ablution and prayedst; after which, devising
    a stratagem against me, thou betrayedst me into this place.--The old
    woman exclaimed, Fear God in thy treatment of me!--but my brother,
    turning towards her, struck her with the sword, and clove her in twain.
    He then went to search for the chief damsel, and when she saw him, her
    reason fled, and she implored his pardon; whereupon he granted her his
    pardon, and said to her, What occasioned thy falling into the hands of
    this black? She answered, I was a slave to one of the merchants, and
    this old woman used to visit me; and one day she said to me, We are
    celebrating a festivity, the like of which no one hath seen, and I have
    a desire that thou shouldst witness it. I replied, I hear and obey:--and
    arose, and clad myself in the best of my attire, and, taking with me a
    purse containing a hundred pieces of gold,[V_94] proceeded with her
    until she entered this house, when suddenly this black took me, and I
    have continued with him in this state three years, through the stratagem
    of the old witch.--My brother then said to her, Is there any property of
    his in the house?--Abundance, she answered; and if thou canst remove it,
    do so:--and upon this, he arose and went with her, when she opened to
    him chests filled with purses, at the sight of which he was confounded;
    and she said to him, Go now, and leave me here, and bring some person to
    remove the property. So he went out, and, having hired ten men,
    returned; but on his arrival at the door, he found it open, and saw
    neither the damsel nor the purses; he found, however, some little money
    remaining, and the stuffs. He discovered, therefore, that she had
    eluded him; and he took the money that remained, and, opening the
    closets, took all the stuffs which they contained, leaving nothing in
    the house.

    He passed the next night full of happiness; but when the morning came,
    he found at the door twenty soldiers, and on his going forth to them,
    they laid hold upon him, saying, The Wálee summoneth thee. So they took
    him, and conducted him to the Wálee, who, when he saw him, said to him,
    Whence obtainedst thou these stuffs?--Grant me indemnity, said my
    brother:--and the Wálee gave him the handkerchief of indemnity;[V_95]
    and my brother related to him all that had befallen him with the old
    woman from first to last, and the flight of the damsel; adding,--and of
    that which I have taken, take thou what thou wilt; but leave me
    wherewith to procure my food. The Wálee thereupon demanded the whole of
    the money and the stuffs; but fearing that the Sulṭán[V_96] might become
    acquainted with the matter, he retained a portion only, and gave the
    rest to my brother, saying to him, Quit this city, or I will hang thee.
    My brother replied, I hear and obey:--and went forth to one of the
    surrounding cities. Some robbers, however, came upon him, and stripped
    and beat him, and cut off his ears; and I, having heard of his
    situation, went forth to him, taking to him some clothes; and brought
    him back privily into the city, and supplied him with daily food and
    drink.

    [Illustration]

    [Illustration]


    THE BARBER'S STORY OF HIS SIXTH BROTHER

    My sixth brother (Shaḳáliḳ), O Prince of the Faithful, had his lips cut
    off. He was in a state of extreme poverty, possessing nothing of the
    goods of this perishable world; and he went forth one day to seek for
    something with which to stay his departing spirit, and on his way he
    beheld a handsome house, with a wide and lofty vestibule, at the door of
    which were servants, commanding and forbidding; whereupon he inquired of
    one of the persons standing there, who answered, This house belongeth to
    a man of the sons of the Barmekees.[V_97] My brother, therefore,
    advanced to the door-keepers, and begged them to give him something; and
    they said, Enter the door of the house, and thou wilt obtain what thou
    desirest of its master. So he entered the vestibule, and proceeded
    through it a while until he arrived at a mansion of the utmost beauty
    and elegance, having a garden in the midst of it, unsurpassed in beauty
    by anything that had ever been seen: its floors were paved with marble,
    and its curtains were hanging around. He knew not in which direction to
    go; but advanced to the upper extremity, and there he beheld a man of
    handsome countenance and beard, who, on seeing my brother, rose to him,
    and welcomed him, inquiring respecting his circumstances. He accordingly
    informed him that he was in want; and when the master of the house heard
    his words, he manifested excessive grief, and, taking hold of his own
    clothes, rent them, and exclaimed, Am I in the city, and thou in it
    hungry? It is a thing that I cannot endure!--Then promising him every
    kind of happiness, he said, Thou must stay and partake of my salt. But
    my brother replied, O my master, I have not patience to wait; for I am
    in a state of extreme hunger.

    Upon this, the master of the house called out, Boy, bring the basin and
    ewer!--and he said, O my guest, advance, and wash thy hand. He then
    performed the same motions as if he were washing his hand; and called to
    his attendants to bring the table; whereupon they began to come and go
    as though they were preparing it; after which the master of the house
    took my brother, and sat down with him at this imaginary table, and
    proceeded to move his hands and lips as if he were eating; saying to my
    brother, Eat, and be not ashamed, for thou art hungry, and I know how
    thou art suffering from the violence of thy hunger. My brother,
    therefore, made the same motions, as if he also were eating, while his
    host said to him, Eat, and observe this bread and its whiteness. To
    this, my brother at first made no reply; but observed in his own mind,
    Verily this is a man who loveth to jest with others:--so he said to him,
    O my master, in my life I have never seen bread more beautifully white
    than this, or any of sweeter taste:--on which the host rejoined, This
    was made by a female slave of mine whom I purchased for five hundred
    pieces of gold. He then called out, Boy, bring to us the
    sikbáj,[V_98] the like of which is not found among the dishes of
    Kings!--and, addressing my brother, he said, Eat, O my guest; for thou
    art hungry, vehemently so, and in absolute want of food. So my brother
    began to twist about his mouth, and to chew, as in eating. The master of
    the house now proceeded to demand different kinds of viands, one after
    another; and, though nothing was brought, he continued ordering my
    brother to eat. Next he called out, Boy, place before us the chickens
    stuffed with pistachio-nuts:--and said to his guest, Eat of that which
    thou hast never tasted the like.--O my master, replied my brother,
    verily this dish hath not its equal in sweetness of flavour:--and the
    host, thereupon, began to put his hand to my brother's mouth as though
    he were feeding him with morsels; and proceeded to enumerate to him the
    various different kinds of viands, and to describe their several
    excellencies; while his hunger so increased that he longed for a cake of
    barley-bread. The master of the house then said to him, Hast thou tasted
    anything more delicious than the spices in these dishes?--No, O my
    master, answered my brother.--Eat more then, resumed the host; and be
    not ashamed.--I have eaten enough of the meats, replied the guest. So
    the man of the house called to his attendants to bring the sweets; and
    they moved their hands about in the air as if they were bringing them;
    whereupon the host said to my brother, Eat of this dish; for it is
    excellent; and of these ḳaṭáïf,[V_99] by my life! and take this one
    before the sirup runs from it.--May I never be deprived of thee, O my
    master! exclaimed my brother, proceeding to inquire of him respecting
    the abundance of musk in the ḳaṭáïf.--This, answered the host, is my
    usual custom in my house: they always put for me, in each of the ḳaṭáïf,
    a mithḳál[V_100] of musk, and half a mithḳál of ambergris.--All
    this time my brother was moving his head and mouth, and rolling about
    his tongue between his cheeks, as if he were enjoying the sweets. After
    this, the master of the house called out to his attendants, Bring the
    dried fruits!--and again they moved about their hands in the air as
    though they were doing what he ordered; when he said to my brother, Eat
    of these almonds, and of these walnuts, and of these raisins;--and so
    on; enumerating the various kinds of dried fruits; and added again, Eat,
    and be not ashamed.--O my master, replied my brother, I have had enough,
    and have not power to eat anything more:--but the host rejoined, If thou
    desire, O my guest, to eat more, and to delight thyself with
    extraordinary dainties, by Allah! by Allah! remain not hungry.

    My brother now reflected upon his situation, and upon the manner in
    which this man was jesting with him, and said within himself, By Allah,
    I will do to him a deed that shall make him repent before God of these
    actions! The man of the house next said to his attendants, Bring us the
    wine:--and, as before, they made the same motions with their hands in
    the air as if they were doing what he commanded; after which he
    pretended to hand to my brother a cup, saying, Take this cup, for it
    will delight thee:--and his guest replied, O my master, this is of thy
    bounty:--and he acted with his hand as though he were drinking it.--Hath
    it pleased thee? said the host.--O my master, answered my brother, I
    have never seen anything more delicious than this wine.--Drink then,
    rejoined the master of the house, and may it be attended with benefit
    and health:--and he himself pretended to drink, and to hand a second cup
    to my brother, who, after he had affected to drink it, feigned himself
    intoxicated, and, taking his host unawares, raised his hand until the
    whiteness of his arm-pit appeared, and struck him such a slap upon his
    neck that the chamber rang at the blow; and this he followed by a second
    blow; whereupon the man exclaimed, What is this, thou vilest of the
    creation?--O my master, answered my brother, I am thy slave, whom thou
    hast graciously admitted into thine abode, and thou hast fed him with
    thy provisions, and treated him with old wine, and he hath become
    intoxicated, and committed an outrage upon thee; but thou art of too
    exalted dignity to be angry with him for his ignorance.

    When the master of the house heard these words of my brother, he uttered
    a loud laugh, and said to him, Verily for a long time have I made game
    of men, and jested with all persons accustomed to joking and rudeness,
    but I have not seen among them any who could endure this trick, nor any
    who had sagacity to conform to all my actions, except thee: now,
    therefore, I pardon thee; and be thou my companion in reality, and never
    relinquish me. He then gave orders to bring a number of the dishes above
    mentioned, and he and my brother ate together to satisfaction; after
    which they removed to the drinking-chamber, where female slaves like so
    many moons sang all kinds of melodies, and played on all kinds of
    musical instruments. There they drank until intoxication overcame them:
    the master of the house treated my brother as a familiar friend, became
    greatly attached to him, and clad him with a costly dress; and on the
    following morning they resumed their feasting and drinking. Thus they
    continued to live for a period of twenty years: the man then died, and
    the Sulṭán[V_101] seized upon his property, and took possession of
    it.

    My brother, upon this, went forth from the city, a fugitive; and upon
    his way, a party of Arabs[V_102] came upon him. They made him a
    captive; and the man who captured him tortured him with beating, and
    said to him, By Allah, purchase thyself of me by wealth, or I will kill
    thee:--but my brother, weeping, replied, By Allah, I possess nothing, O
    Sheykh of the Arabs; nor do I know the means of obtaining any property:
    I am thy captive; I have fallen into thy hands, and do with me what thou
    wilt. And immediately the tyrannical Bedawee drew forth from his girdle
    a broad-bladed knife (such as, if plunged into the neck of a camel,
    would cut it across from one jugular vein to the other), and, taking it
    in his right hand, approached my poor brother, and cut off with it his
    lips; still urging his demand.--Now this Bedawee had a handsome wife,
    who, when he was absent, used to manifest a strong affection for my
    brother; though he observed a proper decorum towards her, fearing God
    (whose name be exalted!); and it happened, one day, that she had called
    him, and seated him with her; but while they were together, lo, her
    husband came in upon them; and when he beheld my brother, he exclaimed,
    Wo to thee, thou base wretch! Dost thou desire now to corrupt my
    wife?--Then drawing his knife, he inflicted upon him another cruel
    wound; after which he mounted him upon a camel, and, having cast him
    upon a mountain, left him there, and went his way. Some travellers,
    however, passed by him, and when they discovered him, they gave him food
    and drink, and acquainted me with his case: so I went forth to him, and
    conveyed him back into the city, and allotted him a sufficient
    maintenance.

    [Illustration]

    Now I have come unto thee, O Prince of the Faithful, continued the
    barber, and feared to return to my house without relating to thee these
    facts; for to neglect doing so had been an error. Thus thou hast seen
    that, although having six brothers, I am of a more upright character
    than they.--But when the Prince of the Faithful had heard my story, and
    all that I had related to him respecting my brothers, he laughed, and
    said, Thou hast spoken truth, O Ṣámit (O silent man); thou art a person
    of few words, and devoid of impertinence; now, however, depart from this
    city, and take up thine abode in another. So he banished me from
    Baghdád; and I journeyed through various countries, and traversed many
    regions, until I heard of his death, and of the succession of another
    Khaleefeh; when, returning to my city, I met with this young man, unto
    whom I did the best of deeds, and who, had it not been for me, had been
    slain: yet he hath accused me of that which is not in my character; for
    all that he hath related of me, with respect to impertinence, and
    loquacity, and dulness, and want of taste, is false, O people.
