I was living in Baghdad during the times of Al-Mustansir
    bi'llah,[FN#632] Son of Al-Mustazi bi'llah the then Caliph, a prince
    who loved the poor and needy and companied with the learned and pious.
    One day it happened to him that he was wroth with ten persons,
    highwaymen who robbed on the Caliph's highway, and he ordered the
    Prefect of Baghdad to bring them into the presence on the anniversary
    of the Great Festival.[FN#633] So the Prefect sallied out and, making
    them His prisoners, embarked with them in a boat. I caught sight of
    them as they were embarking and said to myself, "These are surely
    assembled for a marriage feast; methinks they are spending their day in
    that boat eating and drinking, and none shall be companion of their
    cups but I myself." So I rose, O fair assembly; and, of the excess of
    my courtesy and the gravity of my understanding, I embarked with them
    and entered into conversation with them. They rowed across to the
    opposite bank, where they landed and there came up the watch and
    guardians of the peace with chains, which they put round the robbers'
    necks. They chained me among the rest of them; and, O people, is it not
    a proof of my courtesy and spareness of speech, that I held my peace
    and did not please to speak? Then they took us away in bilbos and next
    morning carried us all before Al- Mustansir bi'llah, Commander of the
    Faithful, who bade smite the necks of the ten robbers. So the Sworder
    came forward after they were seated on the leather of blood;[FN#634]
    then drawing his blade, struck off one head after another until he had
    smitten the neck of the tenth; and I alone remained. The Caliph looked
    at me and asked the Heads man, saying, "What ails thee that thou hast
    struck off only nine heads?"; and he answered, "Allah forbid that I
    should behead only nine, when thou biddest me behead ten!" Quoth the
    Caliph, "Meseems thou hast smitten the necks of only nine, and this man
    before thee is the tenth." "By thy beneficence!" replied the Headsman,
    "I have beheaded ten." "Count them!" cried the Caliph and whenas they
    counted heads, lo! there were ten. The Caliph looked at me and said,
    "What made thee keep silence at a time like this and how camest thou to
    company with these men of blood? Tell me the cause of all this, for
    albeit thou art a very old man, assuredly thy wits are weak." Now when
    I heard these words from the Caliph I sprang to my feet and replied,
    "Know, O Prince of the Faithful, that I am the Silent Shaykh and am
    thus called to distinguish me from my six brothers. I am a man of
    immense learning whilst, as for the gravity of my understanding, the
    wiliness of my wits and the spareness of my speech, there is no end of
    them; and my calling is that of a barber. I went out early on yesterday
    morning and saw these men making for a skiff; and, fancying they were
    bound for a marriage feast, I joined them and mixed with them. After a
    while up came the watch and guardians of the peace, who put chains
    round their necks and round mine with the rest; but, in the excess of
    my courtesy, I held my peace and spake not a word; nor was this other
    but generosity on my part. They brought us into thy presence, and thou
    gavest an order to smite the necks of the ten; yet did I not make
    myself known to thee and remained silent before the Sworder, purely of
    my great generosity and courtesy which led me to share with them in
    their death. But all my life long have I dealt thus nobly with mankind,
    and they requite me the foulest and evillest requital!" When the Caliph
    heard my words and knew that I was a man of exceeding generosity and of
    very few words, one in whom is no forwardness (as this youth would have
    it whom I rescued from mortal risk and who hath so scurvily repaid me),
    he laughed with excessive laughter till he fell upon his back. Then
    said he to me, "O Silent Man, do thy six brothers favour thee in wisdom
    and knowledge and spareness of speech?" I replied, "Never were they
    like me! Thou puttest reproach upon me, O Commander of the Faithful,
    and it becomes thee not to even my brothers with me; for, of the
    abundance of their speech and their deficiency of courtesy and gravity,
    each one of them hath gotten some maim or other. One is a monocular,
    another palsied, a third stone blind, a fourth cropped of ears and nose
    and a fifth shorn of both lips, while the sixth is a hunchback and a
    cripple. And conceive not, O Commander of the Faithful, that I am
    prodigal of speech; but I must perforce explain to thee that I am a man
    of greater worth and fewer words than any of them. From each one of my
    brothers hangs a tale of how he came by his bodily defect and these I
    will relate to thee." So the Caliph gave ear to

    The Barber's Tale of his First Brother.

    Know then, O Commander of the Faithful, that my first brother, Al
    Bakbuk, the Prattler, is a Hunchback who took to tailoring in Baghdad,
    and he used to sew in a shop hired from a man of much wealth, who dwelt
    over the shop,[FN#635] and there was also a flour-mill in the basement.
    One day as my brother, the Hunchback, was sitting in his shop a
    tailoring, he chanced to raise his head and saw a lady like the rising
    full moon at a balconied window of his landlord's house, engaged in
    looking out at the passers by.[FN#636] When my brother beheld her, his
    heart was taken with love of her and he passed his whole day gazing at
    her and neglected his tailoring till eventide. Next morning he opened
    his shop and sat him down to sew; but, as often as he stitched a
    stitch, he looked to the window and saw her as before; and his passion
    and infatuation for her increased. On the third day as he was sitting
    in his usual place gazing on her, she caught sight of him and,
    perceiving that he had been captivated with love of her, laughed in his
    face[FN#637] and he smiled back at her. Then she disappeared and
    presently sent her slave girl to him with a bundle containing a piece
    of red cowered silk. The handmaid accosted him and said, "My lady
    salameth to thee and desireth thee, of thy skill and good will, to
    fashion for her a shift of this piece and to sew it handsomely with thy
    best sewing. He replied, "Hearkening and obedience"; and shaped for her
    a chemise and finished sewing it the same day. When the morning
    morrowed the girl came back and said to him, "My lady salameth to thee
    and asks how thou hast passed yesternight; for she hath not tasted
    sleep by reason of her heart being taken up with thee. Then she laid
    before him a piece of yellow satin and said, My lady biddeth thee cut
    her two pair of petticoat trousers out of this piece and sew them this
    very day." "Hearkening and obedience!' replied he, "greet her for me
    with many greetings and say to her, Thy slave is obedient to thine
    order; so command him as thou wilt." Then he applied himself to cutting
    out and worked hard at sewing the trousers; and after an hour the lady
    appeared at the lattice and saluted him by signs, now casting down her
    eyes, then smiling in his face, and he began to assure himself that he
    would soon make a conquest. She did not let him stir till he had
    finished the two pair of trousers, when she with drew and sent the
    handmaid to whom he delivered them; and she took them and went her
    ways. When it was night, he threw himself on his carpet bed, and lay
    tossing about from side to side till morning, when he rose and sat down
    in his place. Presently the damsel came to him and said, "My master
    calleth for thee." Hearing these words he feared with exceeding fear;
    but the slave girl, seeing his affright, said to him, "No evil is meant
    to thee: naught but good awaiteth thee. My lady would have thee make
    acquaintance with my lord." So my brother the tailor, rejoicing with
    great joy, went with her; and when he came into the presence of his
    landlord, the lady's husband, he kissed the ground before him, and the
    master of the house returned his greeting and gave him a great piece of
    linen saying, "Shape me shirts out of this stuff and sew them well;"
    and my brother answered, "To hear is to obey." Thereupon he fell to
    work at once, snipping, shaping and sewing till he had finished twenty
    shirts by supper time, without stopping to taste food. The house master
    asked him, "How much the wage for this?"; and he answered, "Twenty
    dirhams." So the gentleman cried out to the slave girl, "Bring me
    twenty dirhams," and my brother spake not a word; but the lady signed,
    "Take nothing from him;' whereupon my brother said, "By Allah I will
    take naught from thy hand. And he carried off his tailor's gear and
    returned to his shop, although he was destitute even to a red
    cent.[FN#638] Then he applied himself to do their work; eating, in his
    zeal and diligence, but a bit of bread and drinking only a little water
    for three days. At the end of this time came the handmaid and said to
    him, "What hast thou done?" Quoth he, "They are finished," and carried
    the shirts to the lady's husband, who would have paid him his hire: but
    he said, "I will take nothing," for fear of her and, returning to his
    shop, passed the night without sleep because of his hunger. Now the
    dame had informed her husband how the case stood (my brother knowing
    naught of this); and the two had agreed to make him tailor for nothing,
    the better to mock and laugh at him. Next morning he went to his shop,
    and, as he sat there, the handmaid came to him and said, "Speak with my
    master." So he accompanied her to the husband who said to him, "I wish
    thee to cut out for me five long sleeved robes."[FN#639] So he cut them
    out[FN#640] and took the stuff and went away. Then he sewed them and
    carried them to the gentleman, who praised his sewing and offered him a
    purse of silver. He put out his hand to take it, but the lady signed to
    him from behind her husband not to do so, and he replied, "O my lord,
    there is no hurry, we have time enough for this." Then he went forth
    from the house meaner and meeker than a donkey, for verily five things
    were gathered together in him viz.: love, beggary, hunger, nakedness
    and hard labour. Nevertheless he heartened himself with the hope of
    gaining the lady's favours. When he had made an end of all their jobs,
    they played him another trick and married him to their slave girl; but,
    on the night when he thought to go in to her, they said to him, "Lie
    this night in the mill; and to morrow all will go well." My brother
    concluded that there was some good cause for this and nighted alone in
    the mill. Now the husband had set on the miller to make the tailor turn
    the mill: so when night was half spent the man came in to him and began
    to say, "This bull of ours hath be come useless and standeth still
    instead of going round: he will not turn the mill this night, and yet
    we have great store of corn to be ground. However, I'll yoke him
    perforce and make him finish grinding it before morning, as the folk
    are impatient for their flour." So he filled the hoppers with grain
    and, going up to my brother with a rope in his hand, tied it round his
    neck and said to him, "Gee up! Round with the mill! thou, O bull,
    wouldst do nothing but grub and stale and dung!" Then he took a whip
    and laid it on the shoulders and calves of my brother, who began to
    howl and bellow; but none came to help him; and he was forced to grind
    the wheat till hard upon dawn, when the house master came in and,
    seeing my brother still tethered to the yoke and the man flogging him,
    went away. At day break the miller returned home and left him still
    yoked and half dead; and soon after in came the slave girl who unbound
    him, and said to him, "I and my lady are right sorry for what hath
    happened and we have borne thy grief with thee." But he had no tongue
    wherewith to answer her from excess of beating and mill turning. Then
    he retired to his lodging and behold, the clerk who had drawn up the
    marriage deed came to him[FN#641] and saluted him, saying, "Allah give
    thee long life! May thy espousal be blessed! This face telleth of
    pleasant doings and dalliance and kissing and clipping from dusk to
    dawn." "Allah grant the liar no peace, O thou thousandfold cuckold!",
    my brother replied, "by Allah, I did nothing but turn the mill in the
    place of the bull all night till morning!" "Tell me thy tale," quoth
    he; and my brother recounted what had befallen him and he said, "Thy
    star agrees not with her star; but an thou wilt I can alter the
    contract for thee," adding, "'Ware lest another cheat be not in store
    for thee." And my brother answered him, "See if thou have not another
    contrivance." Then the clerk left him and he sat in his shop, looking
    for some one to bring him a job whereby he might earn his day's bread.
    Presently the handmaid came to him and said, "Speak with my lady."
    "Begone, O my good girl," replied he, "there shall be no more dealings
    between me and thy lady." The handmaid returned to her mistress and
    told her what my brother had said and presently she put her head out of
    the window, weeping and saying, "Why, O my beloved, are there to be no
    more dealings 'twixt me and thee?" But he made her no answer. Then she
    wept and conjured him, swearing that all which had befallen him in the
    mill was not sanctioned by her and that she was innocent of the whole
    matter. When he looked upon her beauty and loveliness and heard the
    sweetness of her speech, the sorrow which had possessed him passed from
    his heart; he accepted her excuse and he rejoiced in her sight. So he
    saluted her and talked with her and sat tailoring awhile, after which
    the handmaid came to him and said, "My mistress greeteth thee and
    informeth thee that her husband purposeth to lie abroad this night in
    the house of some intimate friends of his; so, when he is gone, do thou
    come to us and spend the night with my lady in delightsomest joyance
    till the morning." Now her husband had asked her, "How shall we manage
    to turn him away from thee?"; and she answered, "Leave me to play him
    another trick and make him a laughing stock for all the town." But my
    brother knew naught of the malice of women. As soon as it was dusk, the
    slave girl came to him and carried him to the house, and when the lady
    saw him she said to him, "By Allah, O my lord, I have been longing
    exceedingly for thee." "By Allah," cried he, "kiss me quick before thou
    give me aught else."[FN#642] Hardly had he spoken, when the lady's
    husband came in from the next room[FN#643] and seized him, saying, "By
    Allah, I will not let thee go, till I deliver thee to the chief of the
    town watch." My brother humbled himself to him; but he would not listen
    to him and carried him before the Prefect who gave him an hundred
    lashes with a whip and, mounting him on a camel, promenaded him round
    about the city, whilst the guards proclaimed aloud, "This is his reward
    who violateth the Harims of honourable men!" Moreover, he fell off the
    camel and broke his leg and so became lame. Then the Prefect banished
    him from the city; and he went forth unknowing whither he should wend;
    but I heard of him and fearing for him went out after him and brought
    him back secretly to the city and restored him to health and took him
    into my house where he still liveth. The Caliph laughed at my story and
    said, "Thou hast done well, O Samit, O Silent Man, O spare of speech!";
    and he bade me take a present and go away. But I said, "I will accept
    naught of thee except I tell thee what befell all my other brothers;
    and do not think me a man of many words." So the Caliph gave ear to

    The Barber's Tale of his Second Brother.

    Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that my second brother's name was
    Al-Haddar, that is the Babbler, and he was the paralytic. Now it
    happened to him one day, as he was going about his business, that an
    old woman accosted him and said, "Stop a little, my good man, that I
    may tell thee of somewhat which, if it be to thy liking, thou shalt do
    for me and I will pray Allah to give thee good of it!" My brother
    stopped and she went on, "I will put thee in the way of a certain
    thing, so thou not be prodigal of speech." "On with thy talk," quoth
    he; and she, "What sayest thou to handsome quarters and a fair garden
    with flowing waters, flowers blooming, and fruit growing, and old wine
    going and a pretty young face whose owner thou mayest embrace from dark
    till dawn? If thou do whatso I bid thee thou shalt see something
    greatly to thy advantage." "And is all this in the world?" asked my
    brother; and she answered, "Yes, and it shall be thine, so thou be
    reasonable and leave idle curiosity and many words, and do my bidding."
    "I will indeed, O my lady," said he, "how is it thou hast preferred me
    in this matter before all men and what is it that so much pleaseth thee
    in me?" Quoth she, "Did I not bid thee be spare of speech? Hold thy
    peace and follow me. Know, that the young lady, to whom I shall carry
    thee, loveth to have her own way and hateth being thwarted and all who
    gainsay; so, if thou humour her, thou shalt come to thy desire of her."
    And my brother said, "I will not cross her in anything." Then she went
    on and my brother followed her, an hungering after what she described
    to him till they entered a fine large house, handsome and choicely
    furnished, full of eunuchs and servants and showing signs of prosperity
    from top to bottom. And she was carrying him to the upper story when
    the people of the house said to him, "What dost thou here?" But the old
    woman answered them, "Hold your peace and trouble him not: he is a
    workman and we have occasion for him." Then she brought him into a fine
    great pavilion, with a garden in its midst, never eyes saw a fairer;
    and made him sit upon a handsome couch. He had not sat long, be fore he
    heard a loud noise and in came a troop of slave girls surrounding a
    lady like the moon on the night of its fullest. When he saw her, he
    rose up and made an obeisance to her, whereupon she welcomed him and
    bade him be seated. So he sat down and she said to him, "Allah advance
    thee to honour! Is all well with thee?" "O my lady," he answered, "all
    with me is right well." Then she bade bring in food, and they set
    before her delicate viands; so she sat down to eat, making a show of
    affection to my brother and jesting with him, though all the while she
    could not refrain from laughing; but as often as he looked at her, she
    signed towards her handmaidens as though she were laughing at them. My
    brother (the ass!) understood nothing; but, in the excess of his
    ridiculous passion, he fancied that the lady was in love with him and
    that she would soon grant him his desire. When they had done eating,
    they set on the wine and there came in ten maidens like moons, with
    lutes ready strung in their hands, and fell to singing with full
    voices, sweet and sad, whereupon delight gat hold upon him and he took
    the cup from the lady's hands and drank it standing. Then she drank a
    cup of wine and my brother (still standing) said to her "Health," and
    bowed to her. She handed him another cup and he drank it off, when she
    slapped him hard on the nape of his neck.[FN#644] Upon this my brother
    would have gone out of the house in anger; but the old woman followed
    him and winked to him to return. So he came back and the lady bade him
    sit and he sat down without a word. Then she again slapped him on the
    nape of his neck; and the second slapping did not suffice her, she must
    needs make all her handmaidens also slap and cuff him, while he kept
    saying to the old woman, "I never saw aught nicer than this." She on
    her side ceased not exclaiming, "Enough, enough, I conjure thee, O my
    mistress!"; but the women slapped him till he well nigh swooned away.
    Presently my brother rose and went out to obey a call of nature, but
    the old woman overtook him, and said, "Be patient a little and thou
    shalt win to thy wish." "How much longer have I to wait," my brother
    replied, "this slapping hath made me feel faint." "As soon as she is
    warm with wine," answered she, "thou shalt have thy desire." So he
    returned to his place and sat down, where upon all the handmaidens
    stood up and the lady bade them perfume him with pastiles and
    besprinkle his face with rose- water. Then said she to him, "Allah
    advance thee to honour! Thou hast entered my house and hast borne with
    my conditions, for whoso thwarteth me I turn him away, and whoso is
    patient hath his desire." "O mistress mine," said he, "I am thy slave
    and in the hollow of thine hand!" "Know, then," continued she, "that
    Allah hath made me passionately fond of frolic; and whoso falleth in
    with my humour cometh by whatso he wisheth." Then she ordered her
    maidens to sing with loud voices till the whole company was delighted;
    after which she said to one of them, "Take thy lord, and do what is
    needful for him and bring him back to me forthright." So the damsel
    took my brother (and he not knowing what she would do with him); but
    the old woman overtook him and said, "Be patient; there remaineth but
    little to do." At this his face brightened and he stood up before the
    lady while the old woman kept saying, "Be patient; thou wilt now at
    once win to thy wish!"; till he said, "Tell me what she would have the
    maiden do with me?" "Nothing but good," replied she, "as I am thy
    sacrifice! She wisheth only to dye thy eyebrows and pluck out thy
    mustachios." Quoth he, "As for the dyeing of my eye brows, that will
    come off with washing,[FN#645] but for the plucking out of my
    mustachios, that indeed is a somewhat painful process." "Be cautious
    how thou cross her," cried the old woman; "for she hath set her heart
    on thee." So my brother patiently suffered her to dye his eyebrows and
    pluck out his mustachios, after which the maiden returned to her
    mistress and told her. Quoth she "Remaineth now only one other thing to
    be done; thou must shave his beard and make him a smooth o'
    face."[FN#646] So the maiden went back and told him what her mistress
    had bidden her do; and my brother (the blockhead!) said to her, "How
    shall I do what will disgrace me before the folk?" But the old woman
    said, "She would do on this wise only that thou mayst be as a beardless
    youth and that no hair be left on thy face to scratch and prick her
    delicate cheeks; for indeed she is passionately in love with thee. So
    be patient and thou shalt attain thine object." My brother was patient
    and did her bidding and let shave off his beard and, when he was
    brought back to the lady, lo! he appeared dyed red as to his eyebrows,
    plucked of both mustachios, shorn of his beard, rouged on both cheeks.
    At first she was affrighted at him; then she made mockery of him and,
    laughing till she fell upon her back, said, "O my lord, thou hast
    indeed won my heart by thy good nature!" Then she conjured him, by her
    life, to stand up and dance, and he arose, and capered about, and there
    was not a cushion in the house but she threw it at his head, and in
    like manner did all her women who also kept pelting him with oranges
    and lemons and citrons till he fell down senseless from the cuffing on
    the nape of the neck, the pillowing and the fruit pelting. "Now thou
    hast attained thy wish," said the old woman when he came round; "there
    are no more blows in store for thee and there remaineth but one little
    thing to do. It is her wont, when she is in her cups, to let no one
    have her until she put off her dress and trousers and remain stark
    naked.[FN#647] Then she will bid thee doff thy clothes and run; and she
    will run before thee as if she were flying from thee; and do thou
    follow her from place to place till thy prickle stands at fullest
    point, when she will yield to thee;"[FN#648] adding, "Strip off thy
    clothes at once." So he rose, well nigh lost in ecstasy and, doffing
    his raiment, showed himself mother naked.—And Shahrazad perceived the
    dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

                  When it was the Thirty-second Night,

    She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the old
    woman said to the Barber's second brother, "Doff thy clothes," he rose,
    well nigh lost in ecstasy; and, stripping off his raiment, showed
    himself mother naked. Whereupon the lady stripped also and said to my
    brother, "If thou want anything run after me till thou catch me." Then
    she set out at a run and he ran after her while she rushed into room
    after room and rushed out of room after room, my brother scampering
    after her in a rage of desire like a veritable madman, with yard
    standing terribly tall. After much of this kind she dashed into a
    darkened place, and he dashed after her; but suddenly he trod upon a
    yielding spot, which gave way under his weight; and, before he was
    aware where he was, he found himself in the midst of a crowded market,
    part of the bazaar of the leather sellers who were crying the prices of
    skins and hides and buying and selling. When they saw him in his
    plight, naked, with standing yard, shorn of beard and mustachios, with
    eyebrows dyed red, and cheeks ruddied with rouge, they shouted and
    clapped their hands at him, and set to flogging him with skins upon his
    bare body till a swoon came over him. Then they threw him on the back
    of an ass and carried him to the Chief of Police. Quoth the Chief,
    "What is this?" Quoth they, "This fellow fell suddenly upon us out of
    the Wazir's house[FN#649] in this state." So the Prefect gave him an
    hundred lashes and then banished him from Baghdad. However I went out
    after him and brought him back secretly into the city and made him a
    daily allowance for his living: although, were it not for my generous
    humour, I could not have put up with the like of him. Then the Caliph
    gave ear to

    The Barber's Tale of his Third Brother.

    My third brother's name was Al-Fakík, the Gabbler, who was blind. One
    day Fate and Fortune drove him to a fine large house, and he knocked at
    the door, desiring speech of its owner that he might beg somewhat of
    him. Quoth the master of the house, "Who is at the door?" But my
    brother spake not a word and presently he heard him repeat with a loud
    voice, "Who is this?" Still he made no answer and immediately heard the
    master walk to the door and open it and say, "What dost thou want?" My
    brother answered "Something for Allah Almighty's sake."[FN#650] "Art
    thou blind?" asked the man, and my brother answered "Yes." Quoth the
    other, "Stretch me out thy hand." So my brother put out his hand
    thinking that he would give him something; but he took it and, drawing
    him into the house, carried him up from stair to stair till they
    reached the terrace on the house top, my brother thinking the while
    that he would surely give him something of food or money. Then he asked
    my brother, "What dost thou want, O blind man?" and he answered,
    "Something for the Almighty's sake." "Allah open for thee some other
    door!" "O thou! why not say so when I was below stairs?" "O cadger, why
    not answer me when I first called to thee?" "And what meanest thou to
    do for me now?" "There is nothing in the house to give thee." "Then
    take me down the stair." "The path is before thee." So my brother rose
    and made his way downstairs, till he came within twenty steps of the
    door, when his foot slipped and he rolled to the bottom and broke his
    head. Then he went out, unknowing whither to turn, and presently fell
    in with two other blind men, companions of his, who said to him, "What
    didst thou gain to day?" He told them what had befallen him and added,
    "O my brothers, I wish to take some of the money in my hands and
    provide myself with it." Now the master of the house had followed him
    and was listening to what they said; but neither my brother nor his
    comrades knew of this. So my brother went to his lodging and sat down
    to await his companions, and the house owner entered after him without
    being perceived. When the other blind men arrived, my brother said to
    them, "Bolt the door and search the house lest any stranger have
    followed us." The man, hearing this, caught hold of a cord that hung
    from the ceiling and clung to it, whilst they went round about the
    house and searched but found no one. So they came back, and, sitting
    beside my brother, brought out their money which they counted and lo!
    it was twelve thousand dirhams. Each took what he wanted and they
    buried the rest in a corner of the room. Then they set on food and sat
    down, to eat. Presently my brother, hearing a strange pair of jaws
    munching by his side,[FN#651] said to his friends, "There is a stranger
    amongst us;" and, putting forth his hand, caught hold of that of the
    house master. Thereupon all fell on him and beat him;[FN#652] and when
    tired of belabouring him they shouted, "O ye Moslems! a thief is come
    in to us, seeking to take our money!" A crowd gathered around them,
    whereupon the intruder hung on to them; and complained with them as
    they complained, and, shutting his eyes like them, so that none might
    doubt his blindness, cried out, "O Moslems, I take refuge with Allah
    and the Governor, for I have a matter to make known to him!" Suddenly
    up came the watch and, laying hands on the whole lot (my brother being
    amongst them), drove them[FN#653] to the Governor's who set them before
    him and asked, "What news with you?" Quoth the intruder, "Look and find
    out for thyself, not a word shall be wrung from us save by torture, so
    begin by beating me and after me beat this man our leader."[FN#654] And
    he pointed to my brother. So they threw the man at full length and gave
    him four hundred sticks on his backside. The beating pained him,
    whereupon he opened one eye and, as they redoubled their blows, he
    opened the other eye. When the Governor saw this he said to him, "What
    have we here, O accursed?"; whereto he replied, "Give me the seal-ring
    of pardon! We four have shammed blind, and we impose upon people that
    we may enter houses and look upon the unveiled faces of the women and
    contrive for their corruption. In this way we have gotten great gain
    and our store amounts to twelve thousand dirhams. Said I to my company,
    'Give me my share, three thousand;' but they rose and beat me and took
    away my money, and I seek refuge with Allah and with thee; better thou
    have my share than they. So, if thou wouldst know the truth of my
    words, beat one and every of the others more than thou hast beaten me,
    and he will surely open his eyes." The Governor gave orders for the
    question to begin with my brother, and they bound him to the whipping
    post,[FN#655] and the Governor said, "O scum of the earth, do ye abuse
    the gracious gifts of Allah and make as if ye were blind!" "Allah!
    Allah!" cried my brother, "by Allah, there is none among us who can
    see." Then they beat him till he swooned away and the Governor cried,
    "Leave him till he come to and then beat him again." After this he
    caused each of the companions to receive more than three hundred
    sticks, whilst the sham Abraham kept saying to them "Open your eyes or
    you will be beaten afresh." At last the man said to the Governor,
    "Dispatch some one with me to bring thee the money; for these fellows
    will not open their eyes, lest they incur disgrace before the folk." So
    the Governor sent to fetch the money and gave the man his pretended
    share, three thousand dirhams; and, keeping the rest for himself,
    banished the three blind men from the city. But I, O Commander of the
    Faithful, went out and overtaking my brother questioned him of his
    case; whereupon he told me of what I have told thee; so I brought him
    secretly into the city, and appointed him (in the strictest privacy) an
    allowance for meat and drink! The Caliph laughed at my story and said,
    "Give him a gift and let him go;" but I said, "By Allah! I will take
    naught till I have made known to the Commander of the Faithful what
    came to pass with the rest of my brothers; for truly I am a man of few
    words and spare of speech." Then the Caliph gave ear to

    The Barber's Tale of his Fourth Brother.

    Now as for my fourth brother, O Commander of the Faithful, Al-Kuz
    al-aswáni, or the long necked Gugglet hight, from his brimming over
    with words, the same who was blind of one eye, he became a butcher in
    Baghdad and he sold flesh and fattened rams; and great men and rich
    bought their meat of him, so that he amassed much wealth and got him
    cattle and houses. He fared thus a long while, till one day, as he was
    sitting in his shop, there came up an old man and long o' the beard,
    who laid down some silver and said, "Give me meat for this." He gave
    him his money s worth of flesh and the oldster went his ways. My
    brother examined the Shaykh's silver, and, seeing that the dirhams were
    white and bright, he set them in a place apart. The greybeard continued
    to return to the shop regularly for five months, and my brother ceased
    not to lay up all the coin he received from him in its own box. At last
    he thought to take out the money to buy sheep; so he opened the box and
    found in it nothing, save bits of white paper cut round to look like
    coin;[FN#656] so he buffeted his face and cried aloud till the folk
    gathered about him, whereupon he told them his tale which made them
    marvel exceedingly. Then he rose as was his wont, and slaughtering a
    ram hung it up inside his shop; after which he cut off some of the
    flesh, and hanging it outside kept saying to himself, "O Allah, would
    the ill omened old fellow but come!" And an hour had not passed before
    the Shaykh came with his silver in hand; where upon my brother rose and
    caught hold of him calling out, "Come aid me, O Moslems, and learn my
    story with this villain!" When the old man heard this, he quietly said
    to him, "Which will be the better for thee, to let go of me or to be
    disgraced by me amidst the folk?" "In what wilt thou disgrace me?" "In
    that thou sellest man's flesh for mutton!" "Thou liest, thou accursed!"
    "Nay, he is the accursed who hath a man hanging up by way of meat in
    his shop. If the matter be as thou sayest, I give thee lawful leave to
    take my money and my life." Then the old man cried out aloud, "Ho, ye
    people! if you would prove the truth of my words, enter this man's
    shop." The folk rushed in and found that the ram was become a dead
    man[FN#657] hung up for sale. So they set upon my brother crying out,
    "O Infidel! O villain!"; and his best friends fell to cuffing and
    kicking him and kept saying, "Dost thou make us eat flesh of the sons
    of Adam?" Furthermore, the old man struck him on the eye and put it
    out. Then they carried the carcass, with the throat cut, before the
    Chief of the city watch, to whom the old man said, "O Emir, this fellow
    butchers men and sells their flesh for mutton and we have brought him
    to thee; so arise and execute the judgments of Allah (to whom be honour
    and glory!)." My brother would have defended himself, but the Chief
    refused to hear him and sentenced him to receive five hundred sticks
    and to forfeit the whole of his property. And, indeed, had it not been
    for that same property which he expended in bribes, they would have
    surely slain him. Then the Chief banished him from Baghdad; and my
    brother fared forth at a venture, till he came to a great town, where
    he thought it best to set up as a cobbler; so he opened a shop and sat
    there doing what he could for his livelihood. One day, as he went forth
    on his business, he heard the distant tramp of horses and, asking the
    cause, was told that the King was going out to hunt and course; so my
    brother stopped to look at the fine suite. It so fortuned that the
    King's eye met my brother's; whereupon the King hung down his head and
    said, "I seek refuge with Allah from the evil of this day!";[FN#658]
    and turned the reins of his steed and returned home with all his
    retinue. Then he gave orders to his guards, who seized my brother and
    beat him with a beating so painful that he was well nigh dead; and my
    brother knew not what could be the cause of his maltreatment, after
    which he returned to his place in sorriest plight. Soon afterwards he
    went to one of the King's household and related what had happened to
    him; and the man laughed till he fell upon his back and cried, "O
    brother mine, know that the King cannot bear to look at a monocular,
    especially if he be blind of the right eye, in which case he doth not
    let him go without killing him." When my brother heard this, he
    resolved to fly from that city; so he went forth from it to another
    wherein none knew him and there he abode a long while. One day, being
    full of sorrowful thought for what had befallen him, he sallied out to
    solace himself; and, as he was walking along, he heard the distant
    tramp of horses behind him and said, "The judgement of Allah is upon
    me!" and looked about for a hiding place but found none. At last he saw
    a closed door which he pushed hard: it yielded. and he entered a long
    gallery in which he took refuge, but hardly had he done so, when two
    men set upon him crying out, "Allah be thanked for having delivered
    thee into our hands, O enemy of God! These three nights thou hast
    robbed us of our rest and sleep, and verily thou hast made us taste of
    the death cup." My brother asked, "O folk, what ails you?"; and they
    answered, "Thou givest us the change and goest about to disgrace us and
    plannest some plot to cut the throat of the house master! Is it not
    enough that thou hast brought him to beggary, thou and thy fellows? But
    now give us up the knife wherewith thou threatenest us every night."
    Then they searched him and found in his waist belt the knife used for
    his shoe leather; and he said, "O people, have the fear of Allah before
    your eyes and maltreat me not, for know that my story is a right
    strange!" "And what is thy story?" said they: so he told them what had
    befallen him, hoping they would let him go; however they paid no heed
    to what he said and, instead of showing some regard, beat him
    grievously and tore off his clothes: then, finding on his sides the
    scars of beating with rods, they said, "O accursed! these marks are the
    manifest signs of thy guilt!" They carried him before the Governor,
    whilst he said to himself, "I am now punished for my sins and none can
    deliver me save Allah Almighty!" The Governor addressing my brother
    asked him, "O villain, what led thee to enter their house with
    intention to murther?"; and my brother answered, "I conjure thee by
    Allah, O Emir, hear my words and be not hasty in condemning me!" But
    the Governor cried, "Shall we listen to the words of a robber who hath
    beggared these people, and who beareth on his back the scar of his
    stripes?" adding, "They surely had not done this to thee, save for some
    great crime." So he sentenced him to receive an hundred cuts with the
    scourge, after which they set him on a camel and paraded him about the
    city, proclaiming, "This is the requital and only too little to requite
    him who breaketh into people's houses." Then they thrust him out of the
    city, and my brother wandered at random, till I heard what had befallen
    him; and, going in search of him, questioned him of his case; so he
    acquainted me with his story and all his mischances, and I carried him
    secretly to the city where I made him an allowance for his meat and
    drink. Then the Caliph gave ear to

    The Barber's Tale of his Fifth Brother.

    My fifth brother, Al-Nashshár,[FN#659] the Babbler, the same who was
    cropped of both ears, O Commander of the Faithful, was an asker wont to
    beg of folk by night and live on their alms by day. Now when our
    father, who was an old man well stricken in years sickened and died, he
    left us seven hundred dirhams whereof each son took his hundred; but,
    as my fifth brother received his portion, he was perplexed and knew not
    what to do with it. While in this uncertainty he bethought him to lay
    it out on glass ware of all sorts and turn an honest penny on its
    price. So he bought an hundred dirhams worth of verroterie and, putting
    it into a big tray, sat down to sell it on a bench at the foot of a
    wall against which he leant back. As he sat with the tray before him he
    fell to musing and said to himself, "Know, O my good Self, that the
    head of my wealth, my principal invested in this glass ware, is an
    hundred dirhams. I will assuredly sell it for two hundred with which I
    will forthright buy other glass and make by it four hundred; nor will I
    cease to sell and buy on this wise, till I have gotten four thousand
    and soon find myself the master of much money. With these coins I will
    buy merchandise and jewels and ottars[FN#660] and gain great profit on
    them; till, Allah willing, I will make my capital an hundred thousand
    dirhams. Then I will purchase a fine house with white slaves and
    eunuchs and horses; and I will eat and drink and disport myself; nor
    will I leave a singing man or a singing woman in the city, but I will
    summon them to my palace and make them perform before me." All this he
    counted over in his mind, while the tray of glass ware,: worth an
    hundred dirhams, stood on the bench before him, and, after looking at
    it, he continued, "And when, Inshallah! my capital shall have become
    one hundred thousand[FN#661] dinars, I will send out marriage
    brokeresses to require for me in wedlock the daughters of Kings and
    Wazirs; and I will demand to wife the eldest daughter of the Prime
    Minister; for it hath reached me that she is perfect in beauty and
    prime in loveliness and rare in accomplishments. I will give a marriage
    settlement of one thousand dinars; and, if her father consent, well:
    but if not I will take her by force from under his very nose. When she
    is safely homed in my house, I will buy ten little eunuchs[FN#662] and
    for myself a robe of the robes of Kings and Sultans; and get me a
    saddle of gold and a bridle set thick with gems of price. Then I will
    mount with the Mamelukes preceding me and surrounding me, and I will
    make the round of the city whilst the folk salute me and bless me;
    after which I will repair to the Wazir (he that is father of the girl)
    with armed white slaves before and behind me and on my right and on my
    left. When he sees me, the Wazir stands up, and seating me in his own
    place sits down much below me; for that I am to be his son in law. Now
    I have with me two eunuchs carrying purses, each containing a thousand
    dinars; and of these I deliver to him the thousand, his daughter's
    marriage settlement, and make him a free gift of the other thousand,
    that he may have reason to know my generosity and liberality and my
    greatness of spirit and the littleness of the world in my eyes. And for
    ten words he addresses to me I answer him two. Then back I go to my
    house, and if one come to me on the bride's part, I make him a present
    of money and throw on him a dress of honour; but if he bring me a gift,
    I give it back to him and refuse to accept it,[FN#663] that they may
    learn what a proud spirit is mine which never condescends to derogate.
    Thus I establish my rank and status. When this is done I appoint her
    wedding night and adorn my house showily! gloriously! And as the time
    for parading the bride is come, I don my finest attire and sit down on
    a mattress of gold brocade, propping up my elbow with a pillow, and
    turning neither to the right nor to the left; but looking only straight
    in front for the haughtiness of my mind and the gravity of my
    understanding. And there before me stands my wife in her raiment and
    ornaments, lovely as the full moon; and I, in my loftiness and dread
    lordliness,[FN#664] will not glance at her till those present say to
    me, 'O our lord and our master, thy wife, thy handmaid, standeth before
    thee; vouchsafe her one look, for standing wearieth her.' Then they
    kiss the ground before me many times; whereupon I raise my eyes and
    cast at her one single glance and turn my face earthwards again. Then
    they bear her off to the bride chamber,[FN#665] and I arise and change
    my clothes for a far finer suit; and, when they bring in the bride a
    second time, I deign not to throw her a look till they have begged me
    many times; after which I glance at her out of the corner of one eye,
    and then bend down my head. I continue acting after this fashion till
    the parading and displaying are completed[FN#666]"—And Shahrazad
    perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her per misted say.

                  When It was the Thirty-third Night,

    She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Barber's
    fifth brother proceeded: - "Then I bend down my head and continue
    acting after this fashion till her parading and displaying are
    completed. Thereupon I order one of my eunuchs to bring me a bag of
    five hundred dinars which I give as largesse to the tire women present
    and bid them one and all lead me to the bride chamber. When they leave
    me alone with her I neither look at her nor speak to her, but
    lie[FN#667] by her side with my face to the wall showing my contempt,
    that each and every may again remark how high and haughty I am.
    Presently her mother comes in to me, and kissing[FN#668] my head and
    hand, says to me, 'O my lord, look upon thine handmaid who longs for
    thy favour; so heal her broken spirit!' I give her no answer; and when
    she sees this she rises and busses my feet many times and says, 'O my
    lord, in very sooth my daughter is a beautiful maid, who hath never
    known man; and if thou show her this backwardness and aversion, her
    heart will break; so do thou incline to her and speak to her and soothe
    her mind and spirit.' Then she rises and fetches a cup of wine; and
    says to her daughter, 'Take it and hand it to thy lord.' But as e
    approaches me I leave her standing between my hands and sit, propping
    my elbow on a round cushion purfled with gold thread, leaning lazily
    back, and without looking at her in the majesty of my spirit, so that
    she may deem me indeed a Sultan and a mighty man. Then she says to me,
    'O my lord, Allah upon thee, do not refuse to take the cup from the
    hand of thine hand maid, for verily I am thy bondswoman.' But I do not
    speak to her and she presses me, saying, 'There is no help but that
    thou drink it;' and she puts it to my lips. Then I shake my fist in her
    face and kick her with my foot thus." So he let out with his toe an
    knocked over the tray of glass ware which fell to the ground and,
    falling from the bench, all that was on it was broken to bits. 'O
    foulest of pimps,[FN#669] this comes from the pride of my spirit'"
    cried my brother; and then, O Commander of the Faithful, he buffeted
    his face and rent his garments and kept on weeping and beating himself.
    The folk who were flocking to their Friday prayers saw him; and some of
    them looked at him and pitied him, whilst others paid no heed to him,
    and in this way my bother lost both capital and profit. He remained
    weeping a long while, and at last up came a beautiful lady, the scent
    of musk exhaling from her, who was going to Friday prayers riding a
    mule with a gold saddle and followed by several eunuchs. When she saw
    the broken glass and my brother weeping, her kind heart was moved to
    pity for him, and she asked what ailed him and was told that he had a
    tray full of glass ware by the sale of which he hoped to gain his
    living, but it was broken, and (said they), "there befell him what thou
    seest." Thereupon she called up one of her eunuchs and said to him,
    Give what thou hast with thee to this poor fellow!". And he gave my
    brother a purse in which he found five hundred dinars; and when it
    touched his hand he was well nigh dying for excess of joy and he
    offered up blessings for her. Then he returned to his abode a
    substantial man; and, as he sat considering, some one rapped at the
    door. So he rose and opened and saw an old woman whom he had never
    seen. "O my son," said she, "know that prayer tide is near and I have
    not yet made my Wuzu-ablution;[FN#670] so kindly allow me the use of
    thy lodging for the purpose." My brother answered, "To hear is to
    comply;" and going in bade her follow him. So she entered and he
    brought her an ewer wherewith to wash, and sat down like to fly with
    joy because of the dinars which he had tied up in his belt for a purse.
    When the old woman had made an end of her ablution, she came up to
    where he sat, and prayed a two bow prayer; after which she blessed my
    brother with a godly benediction, and he while thanking her put his
    hand to the dinars and gave her two, saying to himself "These are my
    voluntaries."[FN#671] When she saw the gold she cried, "Praise be to
    Allah! why dost thou look on one who loveth thee as if she were a
    beggar? Take back thy money: I have no need of it; or, if thou want it
    not, return it to her who gave it thee when thy glass ware was broken.
    Moreover, if thou wish to be united with her, I can manage the matter,
    for she is my mistress." "O my mother," asked my brother, "by what
    manner of means can I get at her?"; and she answered, "O my son! she
    hath an inclination for thee, but she is the wife of a wealthy man; so
    take the whole of thy money with thee and follow me, that I may guide
    thee to thy desire: and when thou art in her company spare neither
    persuasion nor fair words, but bring them all to bear upon her; so
    shalt thou enjoy her beauty and wealth to thy heart's content." My
    brother took all his gold and rose and followed the old woman, hardly
    believing in his luck. She ceased not faring on, and my brother
    following her, till they came to a tall gate at which she knocked and a
    Roumi slave-girl[FN#672] came out and opened to them. Then the old
    woman led my brother into a great sitting room spread with wondrous
    fine carpets and hung with curtains, where he sat down with his gold
    before him, and his turband on his knee.[FN#673] He had scarcely taken
    seat before there came to him a young lady (never eye saw fairer) clad
    in garments of the most sumptuous; whereupon my brother rose to his
    feet, and she smiled in his face and welcomed him, signing to him to be
    seated. Then she bade shut the door and, when it was shut, she turned
    to my brother, and taking his hand conducted him to a private chamber
    furnished with various kinds of brocades and gold cloths. Here he sat
    down and she sat by his side and toyed with him awhile; after which she
    rose and saying, "Stir not from thy seat till I come back to thee;"
    disappeared. Meanwhile as he was on this wise, lo! there came in to him
    a black slave big of body and bulk and holding a drawn sword in hand,
    who said to him, "Woe to thee! Who brought thee hither and what dost
    thou want here?" My brother could not return him a reply, being tongue
    tied for terror; so the blackamoor seized him and stripped him of his
    clothes and bashed him with the flat of his sword blade till he fell to
    the ground, swooning from excess of belabouring. The ill omened nigger
    fancied that there was an end of him and my brother heard him cry,
    "Where is the salt wench?"[FN#674] Where upon in came a handmaid
    holding in hand a large tray of salt, and the slave kept rubbing it
    into my brother's wounds;[FN#675] but he did not stir fearing lest the
    slave might find out that he was not dead and kill him outright. Then
    the salt girl went away, and the slave cried Where is the
    souterrain[FN#676] guardianess?" Hereupon in came the old woman and
    dragged my brother by his feet to a souterrain and threw him down upon
    a heap of dead bodies. In this place he lay two full days, but Allah
    made the salt the means of preserving his life by staunching the blood
    and staying its flow Presently, feeling himself able to move,
    Al-Nashshar rose and opened the trap door in fear and trembling and
    crept out into the open; and Allah protected him, so that he went on in
    the darkness and hid himself in the vestibule till dawn, when he saw
    the accursed beldam sally forth in quest of other quarry. He followed
    in her wake without her knowing it, and made for his own lodging where
    he dressed his wounds and medicined himself till he was whole.
    Meanwhile he used to watch the old woman, tracking her at all times and
    seasons, and saw her accost one man after another and carry them to the
    house. However he uttered not a word; but, as soon as he waxed hale and
    hearty, he took a piece of stuff and made it into a bag which he filled
    with broken glass and bound about his middle. He also disguised himself
    as a Persian that none might know him, and hid a sword under his
    clothes of foreign cut. Then he went out and presently, falling in with
    the old woman, said to her, speaking Arabic with a Persian accent,
    "Venerable lady,[FN#677] I am a stranger arrived but this day here
    where I know no one. Hast thou a pair of scales wherein I may weigh
    eleven hundred dinars? I will give thee somewhat of them for thy
    pains." "I have a son, a money changer, who keepeth all kinds of
    scales," she answered, "so come with me to him before he goeth out and
    he will weigh thy gold." My brother answered "Lead the way!" She led
    him to the house and the young lady herself came out and opened it,
    whereupon the old woman smiled in her face and said, "I bring thee fat
    meat today."[FN#678] Then the damsel took my brother by the hand, and
    led him to the same chamber as before; where she sat with him awhile
    then rose and went forth saying, "Stir not from thy seat till I come
    back to thee." Presently in came the accursed slave with the drawn
    sword and cried to my brother, "Up and be damned to thee." So he rose,
    and as the slave walked on before him he drew the sword from under his
    clothes and smote him with it, making head fly from body. Then he
    dragged the corpse by the feet to the souterrain and called out, "Where
    is the salt wench?" Up came the girl carrying the tray of salt and,
    seeing my brother sword in hand, turned to fly; but he followed her and
    struck off her head. Then he called out, "Where is the souterrain
    guardianess? , and in came the old woman to whom he said, "Dost know me
    again, ill omened hag?" "No my lord," she replied, and he said, "I am
    the owner of the five hundred gold pieces, whose house thou enteredst
    to make the ablution and to pray, and whom thou didst snare hither and
    betray." "Fear Allah and spare me," cried she; but he regarded her not
    and struck her with the sword till he had cut her in four. Then he went
    to look for the young lady; and when she saw him her reason fled and
    she cried out piteously "Aman![FN#679] Mercy!" So he spared her and
    asked, "What made thee consort with this blackamoor?", and she
    answered, "I was slave to a certain merchant, and the old woman used to
    visit me till I took a liking to her. One day she said to me, 'We have
    a marriage festival at our house the like of which was never seen and I
    wish thee to enjoy the sight.' 'To hear is to obey,' answered I, and
    rising arrayed myself in my finest raiment and ornaments, and took with
    me a purse containing an hundred gold pieces. Then she brought me
    hither and hardly had I entered the house when the black seized on me,
    and I have remained in this case three whole years through the perfidy
    of the accursed beldam." Then my brother asked her, "Is there anything
    of his in the house?"; whereto she answered, "Great store of wealth,
    and if thou art able to carry it away, do so and Allah give thee good
    of it" My brother went with her and she opened to him sundry chests
    wherein were money bags, at which he was astounded; then she said to
    him, "Go now and leave me here, and fetch men to remove the money.", He
    went out and hired ten men, but when he returned he found the door wide
    open, the damsel gone and nothing left but some small matter of coin
    and the household stuffs.[FN#680] By this he knew that the girl had
    overreached him; so he opened the store rooms and seized what was in
    them, together with the rest of the money, leaving nothing in the
    house. He passed the night rejoicing, but when morning dawned he found
    at the door some twenty troopers who laid hands on him saying, "The
    Governor wants thee!" My brother implored them hard to let him return
    to his house; and even offered them a large sum of money; but they
    refused and, binding him fast with cords, carried him off. On the way
    they met a friend of my brother who clung to his skirt and implored his
    protection, begging him to stand by him and help to deliver him out of
    their hands. The man stopped, and asked them what was the matter, and
    they answered, "The Governor hath ordered us to bring this fellow
    before him and, look ye, we are doing so." My brother's friend urged
    them to release him, and offered them five hundred dinars to let him
    go, saying, "When ye return to the Governor tell him that you were
    unable to find him." But they would not listen to his words and took my
    brother, dragging him along on his face, and set him before the
    Governor who asked him, "Whence gottest thou these stuffs and monies?";
    and he answered, "I pray for mercy!" So the Governor gave him the
    kerchief of mercy;[FN#681] and he told him all that had befallen him
    from first to last with the old woman and the flight of the damsel;
    ending with, "Whatso I have taken, take of it what thou wilt, so thou
    leave me sufficient to support life."[FN#682] But the Governor took the
    whole of the stuffs and all the money for himself; and, fearing lest
    the affair come to the Sultan's ears, he summoned my brother and said,
    "Depart from this city, else I will hang thee." "Hearing and obedience"
    quoth my brother and set out for another town. On the way thieves fell
    foul of him and stripped and beat him and docked his ears; but I heard
    tidings of his misfortunes and went out after him taking him clothes;
    and brought him secretly into the city where I assigned to him an
    allowance for meat and drink. And presently the Caliph gave ear to

    The Barber's Tale of his Sixth Brother.

    My sixth brother, O Commander of the Faithful, Shakashik,[FN#683] or
    Many clamours, the shorn of both lips, was once rich and became poor,
    so one day he went out to beg somewhat to keep life in him. As he was
    on the road he suddenly caught sight of a large and handsome mansion,
    with a detached building wide and lofty at the entrance, where sat
    sundry eunuchs bidding and forbidding.[FN#684] My brother enquired of
    one of those idling there and he replied "The palace belongs to a scion
    of the Barmaki house;" so he stepped up to the door keepers and asked
    an alms of them "Enter," said they, "by the great gate and thou shalt
    get what thou seekest from the Wazir our master." Accordingly he went
    in and, passing through the outer entrance, walked on a while and
    presently came to a mansion of the utmost beauty and elegance, paved
    with marble, hung with curtains and having in the midst of it a flower
    garden whose like he had never seen.[FN#685] My brother stood awhile as
    one bewildered not knowing whither to turn his steps; then, seeing the
    farther end of the sitting chamber tenanted, he walked up to it and
    there found a man of handsome presence and comely beard. When this
    personage saw my brother he stood up to him and welcomed him and asked
    him of his case; whereto he replied that he was in want and needed
    charity. Hearing these words the grandee showed great concern and,
    putting his hand to his fine robe, rent it exclaiming, "What! am I in a
    City, and thou here an hungered? I have not patience to bear such
    disgrace!" Then he promised him all manner of good cheer and said,
    "There is no help but that thou stay with me and eat of my
    salt."[FN#686] "O my lord," answered my brother, "I can wait no longer;
    for I am indeed dying of hunger." So he cried, "Ho boy! bring basin and
    ewer;" and, turning to my brother, said, "O my guest come forward and
    wash thy hands." My brother rose to do so but he saw neither ewer nor
    basin; yet his host kept washing his hands with invisible soap in
    imperceptible water and cried, "Bring the table!" But my brother again
    saw nothing. Then said the host, "Honour me by eating of this meat and
    be not ashamed." And he kept moving his hand to and fro as if he ate
    and saying to my brother, "I wonder to see thee eating thus sparely: do
    not stint thyself for I am sure thou art famished." So my brother began
    to make as though he were eating whilst his host kept saying to him,
    "Fall to, and note especially the excellence of this bread and its
    whiteness!" But still my brother saw nothing. Then said he to himself,
    "This man is fond of poking fun at people;" and replied, "O my lord, in
    all my days I never knew aught more winsome than its whiteness or
    sweeter than its savour." The Barmecide said, "This bread was baked by
    a hand maid of mine whom I bought for five hundred dinars." Then he
    called out, "Ho boy, bring in the meat pudding[FN#687] for our first
    dish, and let there be plenty of fat in it;" and, turning to my brother
    said, "O my guest, Allah upon thee, hast ever seen anything better than
    this meat pudding? Now by my life, eat and be not abashed." Presently
    he cried out again, "Ho boy, serve up the marinated stew[FN#688] with
    the fatted sand grouse in it;" and he said to my brother, "Up and eat,
    O my guest, for truly thou art hungry and needest food." So my brother
    began wagging his jaws and made as if champing and chewing,[FN#689]
    whilst the host continued calling for one dish after another and yet
    produced nothing save orders to eat. Presently he cried out, "Ho boy,
    bring us the chickens stuffed with pistachio nuts;" and said to my
    brother, "By thy life, O my guest, I have fattened these chickens upon
    pistachios; eat, for thou hast never eaten their like." "O my lord,"
    replied my brother, "they are indeed first rate." Then the host began
    motioning with his hand as though he were giving my brother a mouthful;
    and ceased not to enumerate and expatiate upon the various dishes to
    the hungry man whose hunger waxt still more violent, so that his soul
    lusted after a bit of bread, even a barley scone.[FN#690] Quoth the
    Barmecide, "Didst thou ever taste anything more delicious than the
    seasoning of these dishes?"; and quoth my brother, "Never, O my lord!"
    "Eat heartily and be not ashamed," said the host, and the guest, "I
    have eaten my fill of meat;" So the entertainer cried, "Take away and
    bring in the sweets;" and turning to my brother said, "Eat of this
    almond conserve for it is prime and of these honey fritters; take this
    one, by my life, the syrup runs out of it." "May I never be bereaved of
    thee, O my lord," replied the hungry one and began to ask him about the
    abundance of musk in the fritters. "Such is my custom," he answered:
    "they put me a dinar weight of musk in every honey fritter and half
    that quantity of ambergris." All this time my brother kept wagging head
    and jaws till the master cried, "Enough of this. Bring us the dessert!"
    Then said he to him,' "Eat of these almonds and walnuts and raisins;
    and of this and that (naming divers kinds of dried fruits), and be not
    abashed." But my brother replied, "O my lord, indeed I am full: I can
    eat no more." "O my guest," repeated the host, "if thou have a mind to
    these good things eat: Allah! Allah![FN#691] do not remain hungry;" but
    my brother rejoined, "O my lord, he who hath eaten of all these dishes
    how can he be hungry?" Then he considered and said to himself, "I will
    do that shall make him repent of these pranks." Presently the
    entertainer called out "Bring me the wine;" and, moving his hands in
    the air, as though they had set it before them, he gave my brother a
    cup and said, "Take this cup and, if it please thee, let me know." "O
    my lord," he replied, "it is notable good as to nose but I am wont to
    drink wine some twenty years old." "Knock then at this door,"[FN#692]
    quoth the host "for thou canst not drink of aught better." "By thy
    kindness," said my brother, motioning with his hand as though he were
    drinking. "Health and joy to thee," exclaimed the house master and
    feigned to fill a cup and drink it off; then he handed another to my
    brother who quaffed it and made as if he were drunken. Presently he
    took the host unawares; and, raising his arm till the white of his
    armpit appeared, dealt him such a cuff on the nape of his neck that the
    palace echoed to it. Then he came down upon him with a second cuff and
    the entertainer cried aloud "What is this, O thou scum of the earth?"
    "O my lord," replied my brother, "thou hast shown much kindness to thy
    slave, and admitted him into thine abode and given him to eat of thy
    victual; then thou madest him drink of thine old wine till he became
    drunken and boisterous; but thou art too noble not to bear with his
    ignorance and pardon his offence." When the Barmaki heard my brother's
    words he laughed his loudest and said, "Long have I been wont to make
    mock of men and play the madcap among my intimates, but never yet have
    I come across a single one who had the patience and the wit to enter
    into all my humours save thyself: so I forgive thee, and thou shalt be
    my boon companion in very sooth and never leave me." Then he ordered
    the servants to lay the table in earnest and they set on all the dishes
    of which he had spoken in sport; and he and my brother ate till they
    were satisfied; after which they removed to the drinking chamber, where
    they found damsels like moons who sang all manner songs and played on
    all manner instruments. There they remained drinking till their wine
    got the better of them and the host treated my brother like a familiar
    friend, so that he became as it were his brother, and bestowed on him a
    robe of honour and loved him with exceeding love. Next morning the two
    fell again to feasting and carousing, and ceased not to lead this life
    for a term of twenty years; at the end of which the Barmecide died and
    the Sultan took possession of all his wealth and squeezed my brother of
    his savings, till he was left a pauper without a penny to handle. So he
    quitted the city and fled forth following his face;[FN#693] but, when
    he was half way between two towns, the wild Arabs fell on him and bound
    him and carried him to their camp, where his captor proceeded to
    torture him, saying, "Buy thy life of me with thy money, else I will
    slay thee!" My brother began to weep and replied, "By Allah, I have
    nothing, neither gold nor silver; but I am thy prisoner; so do with me
    what thou wilt." Then the Badawi drew a knife, broad bladed and so
    sharp grinded that if plunged into a camel's throat it would sever it
    clean across from one jugular to the other,[FN#694] and cut off my
    brother's lips and waxed more instant in requiring money. Now this
    Badawi had a fair wife who in her husband's absence used to make
    advances to my brother and offer him her favours, but he held off from
    her. One day she began to tempt him as usual and he played with her and
    made her sit on his lap, when behold, in came the Badawi who, seeing
    this, cried out, "Woe to thee, O accursed villain, wouldest thou
    debauch my wife for me?" Then he took out a knife and cut off my
    brother's yard, after which he bound him on the back of a camel and,
    carrying him to a mountain, left him there. He was at last found by
    some who recognised him and gave him meat and drink and acquainted me
    with his condition; whereupon I went forth to him and brought him back
    to Baghdad where I made him an allowance sufficient to live on. This,
    then, O Commander of the Faithful, is the history of my six brothers,
    and I feared to go away without relating it all to thee and leave thee
    in the error of judging me to be like them. And now thou knowest that I
    have six brothers upon my hands and, being more upright than they, I
    support the whole family. When the Caliph heard my story and all I told
    him concerning my brothers, he laughed and said, "Thou sayest sooth, O
    Silent Man! thou art indeed spare of speech nor is there aught of
    forwardness in thee; but now go forth out of this city and settle in
    some other." And he banished me under edict. I left Baghdad and
    travelled in foreign parts till I heard of his death and the accession
    of another to the Caliphate. Then I returned to Baghdad where I found
    all my brothers dead and chanced upon this young man, to whom I
    rendered the kindliest service, for without me he had surely been
    killed. Indeed he slanders me and accuses me of a fault which is not in
    my nature; and what he reports concerning impudence and meddling and
    forwardness is idle and false; for verily on his account I left Baghdad
    and travelled about full many a country till I came to this city and
    met him here in your company. And was not this, O worthy assemblage, of
    the generosity of my nature?

    The End of the Tailor's Tale.

    Then quoth the Tailor to the King of China: When we heard the Barber's
    tale and saw the excess of his loquacity and the way in which he had
    wronged this young man, we laid hands on him and shut him up, after
    which we sat down in peace, and ate and drank and enjoyed the good
    things of the marriage feast till the time of the call to mid afternoon
    prayer, when I left the party and returned home. My wife received me
    with sour looks and said, "Thou goest a pleasuring among thy friends
    and thou leavest me to sit sorrowing here alone. So now, unless thou
    take me abroad and let me have some amusement for the rest of the day,
    I will cut the rope[FN#695] and it will be the cause of my separation
    from thee." So I took her out and we amused ourselves till supper time,
    when we returned home and fell in with this Hunchback who was brimful
    of drink and trolling out these rhymes:

    "Clear's the wine, the cup's fine;   * Like to like they combine:
    It is wine and not cup!              * 'Tis a cup and not wine!"


    So I invited him to sup with us and went out to buy fried fish; after
    which we sat down to eat; and presently my wife took a piece of bread
    and a fid of fish and stuffed them into his mouth and he choked; and,
    though I slapped him long and hard between the shoulders, he died. Then
    I carried him off and contrived to throw him into the house of this
    leach, the Jew; and the leach contrived to throw him into the house of
    the Reeve; and the Reeve contrived to throw him on the way of the
    Nazarene broker. This, then, is my adventure which befell me but
    yesterday. Is not it more wondrous than the story of the Hunchback?
    When the King of China heard the Tailor's tale he shook his head for
    pleasure; and, showing great surprise, said, "This that passed between
    the young man and the busy-body of a Barber is indeed more pleasant and
    wonderful than the story of my lying knave of a Hunchback." Then he
    bade one of his Chamberlains go with the Tailor and bring the Barber
    out of jail, saying, "I wish to hear the talk of this Silent Man and it
    shall be the cause of your deliverance one and all: then we will bury
    the Hunchback, for that he is dead since yesterday, and set up a tomb
    over him."—And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say
    her per misted say.

                  When it was the Thirty-fourth Night,

    She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the King of China
    bade, "Bring me the Barber who shall be the cause of your deliverance;
    then we will bury this Hunchback, for that he is dead since yesterday
    and set up a tomb over him." So the Chamberlain and the Tailor went to
    the jail and, releasing the Barber, presently returned with him to the
    King. The Sultan of China looked at him and considered him carefully
    and lo and behold! he was an ancient man, past his ninetieth year;
    swart of face, white of beard, and hoar of eyebrows; lop eared and
    proboscis-nosed,[FN#696] with a vacant, silly and conceited expression
    of countenance. The King laughed at this figure o' fun and said to him,
    "O Silent Man, I desire thee to tell me somewhat of thy history." Quoth
    the Barber, "O King of the age, allow me first to ask thee what is the
    tale of this Nazarene and this Jew and this Moslem and this Hunchback
    (the corpse) I see among you? And prithee what may be the object of
    this assemblage?" Quoth the King of China, "And why dost thou ask?" "I
    ask," he replied, "in order that the King's majesty may know that I am
    no forward fellow or busy body or impertinent meddler; and that I am
    innocent of their calumnious charges of overmuch talk; for I am he
    whose name is the Silent Man, and indeed peculiarly happy is my
    sobriquet, as saith the poet:

    When a nickname or little name men design, * Know that nature with name
    shall full oft combine."

    Then said the King, "Explain to the Barber the case of this Hunchback
    and what befell him at supper time; also repeat to him the stories told
    by the Nazarene, the Jew, the Reeve, and the Tailor; and of no avail to
    me is a twice told tale." They did his bidding, and the Barber shook
    his head and said, "By Allah, this is a marvel of marvels! Now uncover
    me the corpse of yonder Hunchback. They undid the winding sheet and he
    sat down and, taking the Hunchback's head in his lap, looked at his
    face and laughed and guffaw'd[FN#697] till he fell upon his back and
    said, "There is wonder in every death,[FN#698] but the death of this
    Hunchback is worthy to be written and recorded in letters of liquid
    gold!" The bystanders were astounded at his words and the King
    marvelled and said to him, "What ails thee, O Silent Man? Explain to us
    thy words !" "O King of the age," said the Barber, "I swear by thy
    beneficence that there is still life in this Gobbo Golightly!"
    Thereupon he pulled out of his waist belt a barber's budget, whence he
    took a pot of ointment and anointed therewith the neck of the Hunchback
    and its arteries. Then he took a pair of iron tweezers and, inserting
    them into the Hunchback's throat, drew out the fid of fish with its
    bone; and, when it came to sight, behold, it was soaked in blood.
    Thereupon the Hunchback sneezed a hearty sneeze and jumped up as if
    nothing had happened and passing his hand over his face said, "I
    testify that there is no god, but the God, and I testify that Mohammed
    is the Apostle of God." At this sight all present wondered; the King of
    China laughed till he fainted and in like manner did the others. Then
    said the Sultan, "By Allah, of a truth this is the most marvellous
    thing I ever saw! O Moslems, O soldiers all, did you ever in the lives
    of you see a man die and be quickened again? Verily had not Allah
    vouchsafed to him this Barber, he had been a dead man!" Quoth they, "By
    Allah, 'tis a marvel of marvels." Then the King of China bade record
    this tale, so they recorded it and placed it in the royal
    muniment-rooms; after which he bestowed costly robes of honour upon the
    Jew, the Nazarene and the Reeve, and bade them depart in all esteem.
    Then he gave the Tailor a sumptuous dress and appointed him his own
    tailor, with suitable pay and allowances; and made peace between him
    and the Hunchback, to whom also he presented a splendid and expensive
    suit with a suitable stipend. He did as generously with the Barber,
    giving him a gift and a dress of honour; moreover he settled on him a
    handsome solde and created him Barber surgeon[FN#699] of state and made
    him one of his cup companions. So they ceased not to live the most
    pleasurable life and the most delectable, till there came to them the
    Destroyer of all delights and the Sunderer of all societies, the
    Depopulator of palaces and the Garnerer for graves. Yet, O most
    auspicious King! (continued Shahrazad) this tale is by no means more
    wonderful than that of the two Wazirs and Anís al-Jalís. Quoth her
    sister Dunyazad, "And what may that be?", whereupon she began to relate
    the following tale of
