I was living at Baghdad, in the time of the Khalif Mustensir
    Billah,[FN#100] who loved the poor and needy and companied with
    the learned and the pious. One day, it befell that he was wroth
    with a band of highway robbers, ten in number, who infested the
    neighbourhood, and ordered the chief of the Baghdad police to
    bring them before him on the day of the Festival. So the prefect
    sallied out and capturing the robbers, embarked with them in a
    boat. I caught sight of them, as they were embarking, and said to
    myself, 'These people are surely bound on some party of pleasure;
    methinks they mean to spend the day in eating and drinking, and
    none shall be their messmate but I.' So, of the greatness of my
    courtesy and the gravity of my understanding, I embarked in the
    boat and mingled with them. They rowed across to the opposite
    bank, where they landed, and there came up soldiers and police
    officers with chains, which they put round the necks of the
    robbers. They chained me with the rest, and, O company, is it not
    a proof of my courtesy and spareness of speech that I kept
    silence and did not choose to speak? Then they took us away in
    chains and next morning they carried us all before the Commander
    of the Faithful, who bade strike off the heads of the ten
    robbers. So the herdsman came forward and made us kneel before
    him on the carpet of blood;[FN#101] then drawing his sword,
    struck off one head after another, till none was left but
    myself. The Khalif looked at me and said to the headsman, 'What
    ails thee thou thou struck off but nine heads?' 'God forbid,'
    replied he, 'that I should behead only nine, when thou didst
    order me to behead ten!' Quoth the Khalif, 'Meseems, thou hast
    beheaded but nine and he who is before thee is the tenth.' 'By
    thy munificence,' replied the headsman, 'I have beheaded ten!' So
    they counted the dead men, and behold, they were ten. Then said
    the Khalif to me, 'What made thee keep silence at such a time and
    how camest thou in company with these men of blood? Thou art a
    man of great age, but assuredly thy wit is but little.' When I
    heard the Khalif's words, I replied, 'Know, O Commander of the
    Faithful, that I am the Silent Elder, and am thus called to
    distinguish me from my six brothers. I am a man of great
    learning, whilst, as for the gravity of my understanding, the
    excellence of my apprehension and the spareness of my speech,
    there is no end to them; and by craft I am a barber. I went out
    early yesterday morning and saw these ten men making for a boat,
    and thinking they were bound on a party of pleasure, joined
    myself to them and embarked with them. After awhile, there came
    up the officers, who put chains round their necks and round mine
    amongst the rest, but in the excess of my courtesy, I kept
    silence and did not speak, nor was this other than generosity on
    my part. Then they brought us before thee and thou didst order
    the ten robbers' heads to be stricken off; yet did I not make
    myself known to thee, purely of my great generosity and courtesy,
    which led me to share with them in their death. But all my life
    have I dealt thus nobly with the folk, and they still requite me
    after the foulest fashion.' When the Khalif heard what I said and
    knew that I was a man of exceeding generosity and few words and
    no meddler (as this young man would have it, whom I rescued from
    horrors and who has so scurvily repaid me), he laughed so
    immoderately that he fell backward. Then said he to me, 'O silent
    man, are thy six brothers like thee distinguished for wisdom and
    knowledge and spareness of speech?' 'Never were they like me,'
    answered I; 'thou dost me injustice, O Commander of the Faithful,
    and it becomes thee not to even my brothers with me: for, of the
    abundance of their speech and their lack of conduct and courtesy,
    each one of them has gotten some bodily defect. One is blind of
    an eye, another paralysed, a third blind, a fourth cropped of the
    ears and nose, a fifth crop-lipped and a sixth hunchbacked and a
    cripple. Thou must not think, O Commander of the Faithful, that I
    am a man of many words; but I must needs explain to thee that I
    am a man of greater worth and of fewer words than they. By each
    one of my brothers hangs a tale of how he came by his defect,
    [FN#102] and these I will relate to thee. Know then, O Commander
    of the Faithful that





    Story of the Barber's First Brother.



    My first brother, the hunchback, was a tailor in Baghdad, and
    plied his craft in a shop, which he hired of a very rich man, who
    dwelt over against him and had a mill in the lower part of the
    house. One day, as my brother the hunchback was sitting in his
    shop, sewing, he chanced to raise his head and saw, at the
    bay-window of his landlord's house, a lady like the rising full
    moon, engaged in looking at the passers-by. His heart was taken
    with love of her and he passed the day gazing at her and
    neglecting his business, till the evening. Next day, he opened
    his shop and sat down to sew: but as often as he made a stitch,
    he looked at the bay-window and saw her as before; and his
    passion and infatuation for her redoubled. On the third day, as
    he was sitting in his usual place, gazing on her, she caught
    sight of him, and perceiving that he had fallen a captive to her
    love, smiled in his face, and he smiled back at her. Then she
    withdrew and sent her slave-girl to him with a parcel of red
    flowered silk. The girl accosted him and said to him, "My lady
    salutes thee and would have thee cut out for her, with a skilful
    hand, a shift of this stuff and sew it handsomely." "I hear and
    obey," answered he; and cut out the shift and made an end of
    sewing it the same day. Next morning early, the girl came back
    and said to him, "My mistress salutes thee and would fain know
    how thou hast passed the night; for she has not tasted sleep by
    reason of her heart being taken up with thee." Then she laid
    before him a piece of yellow satin and said to him, "My mistress
    bids thee cut her two pairs of trousers of this stuff and sew
    them this day." "I hear and obey," answered he; "salute her for
    me with abundant salutation and say to her, 'Thy slave is
    obedient to thy commands so order him as thou wilt.'" Then he
    applied himself to cut out the trousers and used all diligence in
    sewing them. Presently the lady appeared at the window and
    saluted him by signs, now casting down her eyes and now smiling
    in his face, so that he made sure of getting his will of her. She
    did not let him budge till he had finished the two pairs of
    trousers, when she withdrew and sent the slave-girl, to whom he
    delivered them, and she took them and went away. When it was
    night, he threw himself on his bed and tossed from side to side,
    till morning, when he rose and sat down in his shop. By-and-by,
    the slave-girl came to him and said, "My master calls for thee."
    When he heard this, he was afraid; but the girl, seeing his
    alarm, to him, "Fear not: nought but good shall befall thee. My
    lady would have thee make acquaintance with my master." So my
    brother rejoiced greatly and went out with her. When he came into
    his landlord's presence he kissed the earth before him, and the
    latter returned his salute; then gave him a great piece of linen,
    saying, "Make this into shirts for me." "I hear and obey,"
    replied my brother, and fell to work at once and cut out twenty
    shirts by nightfall, without stopping to taste food. Then said
    the husband "What is thy hire for this?" "Twenty dirhems,"
    answered my brother. So the man cried out to the slave-girl to
    give him twenty dirhems; but the lady signed to my brother not to
    take them, and he said, "By Allah, I will take nothing from
    thee!" And took his work and went away, though he was sorely in
    want of money. Then he applied himself to do their work, eating
    and drinking but little for three days, in his great diligence.
    At the end of this time, the slave-girl came to him and said,
    "What hast thou done?" Quoth he, "They are finished;" and carried
    the shirts to his landlord, who would have paid him his hire; but
    he said, "I will take nothing," for fear of the lady, and
    returning to his shop, passed the night without sleep for hunger.
    Now the lady had told her husband how the case stood, and they
    had agreed to take advantage of his infatuation to make him sew
    for them for nothing and laugh at him. Next morning, as he sat in
    his shop, the servant came to him and said, "My master would
    speak with thee." So he accompanied her to the husband, who said
    to him, "I wish thee to make me five cassocks." So he cut them
    out and took the stuff and went away. Then he sewed them and
    carried them to the man, who praised his work and offered him a
    purse of money. He put out his hand to take it, but the lady
    signed to him from behind her husband not to do so, and he
    replied, "O my lord, there is no hurry: by-and-by." Then he went
    out, more abject than an ass, for verily five things at once were
    sore upon him, love and beggary and hunger and nakedness and
    toil; nevertheless, he heartened himself with the hope of gaining
    the lady's favours. When he had made an end of all their work,
    they put a cheat upon him and married him to their slave-girl.
    but when he thought to go in to her, they said to him, "Lie this
    night in the mill; and to-morrow all will be well." My brother
    concluded that there was some good reason for this and passed the
    night alone in the mill. Now the husband had set on the miller to
    make my brother turn the mill; so in the middle of the night, the
    miller came in and began to say, "This ox is lazy and stands
    still and will not turn, and there is much wheat to be ground. So
    I will yoke him and make him finish grinding it this night, for
    the folk are impatient for their flour." Then he filled the
    hoppers with grain and going up to my brother, with a rope in his
    hand, bound him to the yoke and said to him, "Come, turn the
    mill! Thou thinkest of nothing but eating and voiding." Then he
    took a whip and laid on to my brother, who began to weep and cry
    out; but none came to his aid, and he was forced to grind the
    wheat till near daylight, when the husband came in and seeing him
    yoked to the shaft and the miller flogging him, went away. At
    daybreak the miller went away and left him still yoked and well
    nigh dead; and soon after in came the slave-girl, who unbound him
    and said to him, "I am grieved for what has befallen thee, and
    both I and my lady are full of concern for thee." But he had no
    tongue wherewith to answer her, for excess of beating and toil.
    Then he returned to his lodging, and presently the notary who had
    drawn up the marriage contract came to him and saluted him,
    saying, "God give thee long life! May thy marriage be blessed!
    Thou hast doubtless passed the night clipping and kissing and
    dalliance from dusk to dawn." "May God curse thee for a liar,
    thousandfold cuckold that thou art!" replied my brother. "By
    Allah, I did nothing but turn the mill in the place of the ox all
    night!" Quoth the notary, "Tell me thy story." So my brother told
    him what had happened, and he said, "Thy star agrees not with
    hers: but if thou wilt, I can alter the contract for thee." And
    my brother answered, "See if thou have another device." Then the
    notary left him and he sat down in his shop, till some one should
    bring him work by which he might earn his day's bread. Presently
    the slave-girl came to him and said, "My mistress would speak
    with thee." "Go, my good girl," replied he; "I will have no more
    to do with thy mistress." So the girl returned to her mistress
    and told her what my brother had said, and presently she put her
    head out of the window, weeping and saying, "O my beloved, why
    wilt thou have no more to do with me?" But he made her no answer.
    Then she swore to him that all that had befallen him in the mill
    was without her sanction and that she was guiltless of the whole
    affair. When he saw her beauty and grace and heard the sweetness
    of her speech, he forgot what had befallen him and accepted her
    excuse and rejoiced in her sight. So he saluted her and talked
    with her and sat at his sewing awhile, after which the servant
    came to him and said, "My mistress salutes thee and would have
    thee to know that her husband purposes to lie this night abroad
    with some intimate friends of his; so when he is gone, do thou
    come to us and pass the night with her in all delight till the
    morning." Now the man had said to his wile, "How shall we do to
    turn him away from thee?" Quoth she, "Let me play him another
    trick and make him a byword in the city." But my brother knew
    nothing of the malice of women. As soon as it was night, the
    servant came to him and carried him to the house; and when the
    lady saw him, she said to him, "By Allah, O my lord, I have been
    longing for thee!" "By Allah," replied he, "make haste and give
    me a kiss first of all." Hardly had he spoken, when the master of
    the house came in from an inner room and seized him, saying, "By
    Allah, I will not let thee go, till I deliver thee to the chief
    of the police." My brother humbled himself to him; but he would
    not listen to him and carried him to the prefect, who gave him a
    hundred lashes with a whip and mounting him on a camel, paraded
    him about the city, whilst the folk proclaimed aloud, "This is
    the punishment of those who violate people's harems!" Moreover,
    he fell off the camel and broke his leg and so became lame. Then
    the prefect banished him from the city and he went forth, not
    knowing whither to turn; but I heard of his mishap and going out
    after him, brought him back and took him to live with me.'

    The Khalif laughed at my story and said, 'Thou hast done well, O
    Silent One, O man of few words!' and bade me take a present and
    go away. But I said, 'I will take nothing except I tell thee what
    befell my other brothers: and do not think me a man of many
    words. Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that





    Story of the Barber's Second Brother.



    My second brother's name was Becbac and he was the paralytic. One
    day, as he was going about his business, an old woman accosted
    him and said to him, "Harkye, stop a little, that I may tell thee
    of somewhat, which, if it please thee, thou shalt do for me." My
    brother stopped and she went on, "I will put thee in the way of a
    certain thing, so thy words be not many." "Say on," replied my
    brother; and she, "What sayest thou to a handsome house and a
    pleasant garden, with running waters and fruits and wine and a
    fair-faced one to hold in thine arms from dark till dawn?" "And
    is all this in the world?" asked my brother. "Yes," answered she;
    "and it shall be thine, so thou be reasonable and leave
    impertinent curiosity and many words and do as I bid thee." "I
    will well, O my lady," rejoined my brother; "but what made thee
    choose me of all men for this affair and what is it pleases thee
    in me?" Quoth she, "Did I not bid thee be sparing of speech? Hold
    thy peace and follow me. Thou must know that the young lady, to
    whom I shall carry thee, loves to have her own way and hates to
    be crossed, so if thou fall in with her humour, thou shalt come
    to thy desire of her." And my brother said, "I will not thwart
    her in aught." Then she went on and he followed her, eager to
    enjoy what she had promised him, till she brought him to a fine
    large house, richly furnished and full of servants, and carried
    him to an upper story. When the people of the house saw him, they
    said to him, "What dost thou here?" But the old woman bade them,
    "Let him be and trouble him not; for he is a workman and we have
    occasion for him." Then she brought him into a fine great
    gallery, with a fair garden in its midst, and made him sit down
    upon a handsome couch. He had not sat long, before he heard a
    great noise and in came a troop of damsels, with a lady in their
    midst, as she were the moon on the night of its full. When he saw
    her, he rose and made an obeisance to her; whereupon she bade him
    welcome and ordered him to be seated. So he sat down and she said
    to him. "God advance thee! Is all well with thee?" "O my lady,"
    replied my brother, "all is well." Then she called for food, and
    they brought her a table richly served. So she sat down to eat,
    making a show of affection to my brother and jesting with him,
    though all the while she could not keep from laughing: but as
    often as he looked at her, she signed towards the waiting-maids,
    as if she laughed at them. My ass of a brother understood
    nothing, but concluded, in the blindness of his doting, that the
    lady was in love with him and would admit him to his desire. When
    they had finished eating, they set on wine, and there came in ten
    damsels like moons, with strung lutes in their hands, and fell a
    singing right melodiously; whereupon delight got hold upon him
    and he took the cup from the lady's hands and drank it off. Then
    she drank a cup of wine, and he rose and bowed to her, saying,
    "Health to thee!" She filled him another cup and he drank it off,
    and she gave him a cuff on the nape of his neck; whereupon he
    rose and went out in a rage; but the old woman followed him and
    winked to him to return. So he came back and the lady bade him
    sit, and he sat down without speaking. Then she dealt him a
    second cuff, and nothing would serve her but she must make all
    her maids cuff him also. Quoth he to the old woman, "Never saw I
    aught finer than this!" And she kept saying, "Enough, enough, I
    conjure thee, O my lady!" The women cuffed him till he was
    well-nigh senseless, and he rose and went out again in a rage;
    but the old woman followed him and said, "Wait a little, and thou
    shalt come to what thou wishest." "How much longer must I wait?"
    asked he. "Indeed I am faint with cuffing." "As soon as she is
    warm with wine," answered she, "thou shalt have thy desire." So
    he returned to his place and sat down, whereupon all the damsels
    rose and the lady bade them fumigate him and sprinkle rose-water
    on his face. Then said she to him, "God advance thee! Thou hast
    entered my house and submitted to my conditions; for whoso
    thwarts me, I turn him away, but he who is patient has his
    desire." "O my lady," replied he, "I am thy slave and in the
    hollow of thy hand." "Know then," continued she, "that God has
    made me passionately fond of frolic, and whoso falls in with my
    humour comes by what he wishes." Then she ordered the damsels to
    sing with loud voices, and they sang, till the whole company was
    in ecstasy: after which she said to one of the maids, "Take thy
    lord and do what is wanting to him and bring him back to me
    forthright." So the damsel took my brother, who knew not what she
    would do with him; but the old woman came up to him and said, "Be
    patient; there remains but little to do." At this his face
    cleared and he said, "Tell me what she would have the maid do
    with me." "Nothing but good," replied she, as I am thy ransom.
    She only wishes to dye thine eyebrows and pluck out thy
    moustaches." Quoth he, "As for the dyeing of my eyebrows, that
    will come off with washing, but the plucking out of my moustaches
    will be irksome." "Beware of crossing her," said the old woman;
    "for her heart is set on thee." So my brother suffered them to
    dye his eyebrows and pluck out his moustaches, after which the
    damsel returned to her mistress and told her. Quoth she, "There
    is one thing more to be done; thou must shave his chin, that he
    may be beardless." So the maid went back and told my brother what
    her mistress bade her do, whereupon cried my fool of a brother,
    "How can I do what will dishonour me among the folk?" But the old
    woman said, "She only wishes to do thus with thee, that thou
    mayst be as a beardless youth and that no hair may be left on thy
    face to prick her; for she is passionately in love with thee. Be
    patient and thou shalt attain thy desire." So he submitted to
    have his beard shaved off and his face rouged, after which they
    carried him back to the lady. When she saw him with his eyebrows
    dyed, his whiskers and moustaches plucked out, his beard shaved
    off and his face rouged, she was affrighted at him, then laughed
    till she fell backward and said, "O my lord, thou hast won my
    heart with thy good nature!" Then she conjured him, by her life,
    to rise and dance; so he began to dance, and there was not a
    cushion in the place but she threw it at him, whilst the damsels
    pelted him with oranges and limes and citrons, till he fell down
    senseless. When he came to himself, the old woman said to him,
    "Now thou hast attained thy desire. There is no more beating for
    thee and there remains but one thing more. It is her wont, when
    she is heated with wine, to let no one have to do with her till
    she put off her clothes and remain stark naked. Then she will bid
    thee strip, in like manner, and run before thee from place to
    place, as if she fled from thee, and thou after her, till thy
    yard be in good point, when she will stop and give herself up to
    thee. So now rise and put off thy clothes." So he rose, well-nigh
    beside himself, and stripped himself stark naked; whereupon the
    lady stripped also and saying to my brother, "Follow me, if thou
    desire aught," set off running in at one place and out at another
    and he after her, transported for desire, till his yard rose, as
    he were mad. Presently she entered a dark passage, and in
    following her, he trod upon a soft place, which gave way with
    him, and before he knew where he was, he found himself in the
    midst of the market of the fell-mongers, who were calling skins
    for sale and buying and selling. When they saw him in this
    plight, naked, with yard on end, shaven face, dyed eyebrows and
    rouged cheeks, they cried out and clapped their hands at him and
    flogged him with skins upon his naked body, till he swooned away;
    when they set him on an ass and carried him to the chief of the
    police, who said, "What is this?" Quoth they, "This fellow came
    out upon us from the Vizier's house, in this plight." So the
    prefect gave him a hundred lashes and banished him from Baghdad.
    However, I went out after him and brought him back privily into
    the city and made him an allowance for his living, though, but
    for my generous disposition, I had not put up with such a fellow.





    Story of the Barber's Third Brother



    The name of my third brother was Fekic and he was blind. One day,
    chance and destiny led him to a great house and he knocked at the
    door, desiring speech of the owner, that he might beg of him
    somewhat. Quoth the master of the house, "Who is at the door?"
    But my brother was silent and heard him repeat, in a loud voice,
    "Who is there?" Still he made no answer and presently heard the
    master come to the door and open it and say, "What dost thou
    want?" "Charity," replied my brother, "for the love of God the
    Most High!" "Art thou blind?" asked the man; and my brother said,
    "Yes." Quoth the other, "Give me thy hand." So my brother put out
    his hand, thinking that he would give him something; but he took
    it and drawing him into the house, carried him up, from stair to
    stair, till they reached the housetop, my brother thinking the
    while that he would surely give him food or money. Then said
    he to my brother, "What dost thou want, O blind man?" "Charity,
    for the love of God!" repeated my brother. "God succour
    thee!"[FN#103] answered the master of the house. "O man,"
    answered my brother, "why couldst thou not tell me this
    downstairs?" "O loser," answered he, "why didst thou not answer
    me, when I asked who was at the door?" Quoth my brother, "What
    wilt thou with me now?" And the other replied, "I have nothing to
    give thee." "Then take me down again," said my brother. But he
    answered, "The way lies before thee." So my brother rose and made
    his way down the stairs, till he came within twenty steps of the
    door, when his foot slipped and he rolled to the bottom and broke
    his head. Then he went out, knowing not whither to turn, and
    presently fell in with other two blind men, comrades of his, who
    enquired how he had fared that day. He told them what had passed
    and said to them, "O my brothers, I wish to take some of the
    money in my hands and provide my self with it." Now the master of
    the house had followed him and heard what they said, but neither
    my brother nor his fellows knew of this. So my brother went on to
    his lodging and sat down to await his comrades, and the owner of
    the house entered after him without his knowledge. When the other
    blind men arrived, my brother said to them, "Shut the door and
    search the house, lest any stranger have followed us." The
    intruder, hearing this, caught hold of a rope that hung from the
    ceiling and clung to it, whilst the blind men searched the whole
    place, but found nothing. So they came back and sitting down
    beside my brother, brought out their money, which they counted,
    and lo, it was twelve thousand dirhems. Each took what he wanted
    and the rest they buried in a corner of the room. Then they set
    on food and sat down to eat. Presently my brother heard a strange
    pair of jaws wagging at his side; so he said to his comrades,
    "There is a stranger amongst us;" and putting out his hand,
    caught hold of that of the intruder. Therewith they all fell on
    him and beat him, crying out, "O Muslims, a thief is come in to
    us, seeking to take our property!" So much people flocked to
    them, whereupon the owner of the house caught hold of the blind
    men and shutting his eyes, feigned to be blind like unto them, so
    that none doubted of it. Then he complained of them, even as they
    of him, crying out, "O Muslims, I appeal to God and the Sultan
    and the chief of the police! I have a grave matter to make known
    to the chief of the police." At this moment, up came the watch
    and seizing them all, dragged them before the chief of the
    police, who enquired what was the matter. Quoth the spy, "See
    here; thou shalt come at nought except by torture: so begin by
    beating me, and after me, beat this my captain." And he pointed
    to my brother. So they threw the man down and gave him four
    hundred strokes on the backside. The beating pained him, and he
    opened one eye; and as they redoubled their blows, he opened the
    other. When the chief of the police saw this, he said to him,
    "What is this, O accursed one?" "Give me the seal-ring of
    pardon!" replied he. "We are four who feign ourselves blind and
    impose upon people, that we may enter houses and gaze upon women
    and contrive for their corruption. In this way, we have gotten
    much money, even twelve thousand dirhems. So I said to my
    comrades, 'Give me my share, three thousand dirhems.' But they
    fell on me and beat me and took away my money, and I appeal to
    God and thee for protection; better thou have my share than they.
    So, an thou wouldst know the truth of my words, beat each of the
    others more than thou hast beaten me and he will surely open his
    eyes." The prefect bade begin with my brother: so they bound him
    to the whipping-post,[FN#104] and the prefect said, "O rascals,
    do ye abjure the gracious gifts of God and pretend to be blind?"
    "Allah! Allah!" cried my brother, "by Allah, there is not one
    amongst us who can see!" Then they beat him, till he fainted and
    the prefect said, "Leave him till he revives and then beat him
    again." And he caused each of the others to be beaten with more
    than three hundred blows, whilst the sham blind man stood by,
    saying to them, "Open your eyes, or you will be beaten anew."
    Then he said to the prefect, "Send some one with me to fetch the
    money, for these fellows will not open their eyes, lest they be
    put to shame before the folk." So the prefect sent to fetch the
    money and gave the impostor three thousand dirhems to his
    pretended share. The rest he took for himself and banished the
    three blind men from the city. But, O Commander of the Faithful,
    I went out and overtaking my brother, questioned him of his case;
    whereupon he told me what I have told thee. So I carried him back
    privily into the city and appointed him in secret wherewithal to
    eat and drink.' The Khalif laughed at my story and said, 'Give
    him a present and let him go.' By Allah,' rejoined I, 'I will
    take nothing till I have made known to the Commander of the
    Faithful what happened to my other brothers, for I am a man of
    few words.' Then I went on as follows





    Story of the Barber's Fourth Brother.



    'My fourth brother, the one-eyed, was a butcher at Baghdad, who
    sold meat and reared rams; and the notables and men of wealth
    used to buy meat of him, so that he amassed much wealth and got
    him cattle and houses. He fared thus a long while' till one day,
    as he was sitting in his shop, there came up to him an old man
    with a long beard, who laid down some money and said, "Give me
    meat for this." So he gave him his money's worth of meat, and the
    old man went away. My brother looked at the money he had paid
    him, and seeing that it was brilliantly white, laid it aside by
    itself. The old man continued to pay him frequent visits for five
    months, and my brother threw the money he received from him into
    a chest by itself. At the end of this time, he thought to take
    out the money to buy sheep; so he opened the chest, but found in
    it nothing but white paper, cut round. When he saw this, he
    buffeted his face and cried out, till the folk came round him and
    he told them his story, at which they wondered. Then he rose, as
    of his wont, and slaughtering a ram, hung it up within the shop;
    after which he cut off some of the meat and hung it up outside,
    saying the while, "Would God that pestilent old man would come!"
    And surely before long up came the old man, with his money in his
    hand; whereupon my brother rose and caught hold of him, crying
    out, "Come to my help, O Muslims, and hear what befell me with
    this scoundrel!" When the old man heard this, he said to him, "An
    thou loose me not, I will expose thee before the folk!" "In what
    wilt thou expose me?" asked my brother, and the other replied,
    "In that thou sellest man's flesh for mutton." "Thou liest, O
    accursed one!" cried my brother: and the old man said, "He is the
    accursed one who has a man hanging up in his shop." "If it be as
    thou sayest," rejoined my brother, "I give thee leave to take my
    property and my life." Then said the old man, "Ho, people of the
    city! an ye would prove the truth of my words, enter this man's
    shop." So they rushed into the shop, when they saw the ram was
    become a dead man hanging up and seized on my brother, crying
    out, "O infidel! O villain!" And his best friends fell to beating
    him and saying, "Dost thou give us man's flesh to eat?" Moreover,
    the old man struck him on the eye and put it out. Then they
    carried the carcase to the chief of the police, to whom said the
    old man, "O Amir, this fellow slaughters men and sells their
    flesh for mutton, and we have brought him to thee; so arise and
    execute the justice of God, to whom belong might and majesty!" My
    brother would have defended himself, but the prefect refused to
    hear him and sentenced him to receive five hundred blows with a
    stick and to forfeit all his property. And indeed, but for his
    wealth, they had put him to death. Then he banished him from the
    city and my brother fared forth at a venture, till he came to a
    great city, where he thought well to set up as a cobbler. So he
    opened a shop and fell to working for his living. One day, as he
    went on an occasion, he heard the tramp of horse, and enquiring
    the cause, was told that the King was going out to hunt and
    stopped to look on his state. It chanced that the King's eye met
    his, whereupon he bowed his head, saying, "I take refuge with God
    from the evil of this day!" And drawing bridle, rode back to his
    palace, followed by his retinue. Then he gave an order to his
    guards, who seized my brother and beat him grievously, till he
    was well-nigh dead, without telling him the reason: after which
    he returned to his shop, in a sorry plight, and told one of the
    King's household, who laughed till he fell backward and said to
    him, "O my brother, know that the King cannot endure the sight of
    a one-eyed man; especially if he be blind of the left eye, in
    which case, he does not let him go without killing him." When my
    brother heard this, he resolved to fly that city, so went forth
    and repaired to another country, where he was known of none. Here
    he abode a long while, till one day, being heavy at heart for
    what had befallen him, he went out to divert himself. As he was
    walking along, he heard the tramp of horse behind him; whereupon
    he exclaimed, "The judgment of God is upon me!" and looked out
    for a hiding-place, but found none. At last he saw a closed door,
    and pushing against it, it yielded and he found himself in a long
    corridor, in which he took refuge. Hardly had he done so, when
    two men laid hold of him, exclaiming, "Praise be to God, who hath
    delivered thee into our hands, O enemy of Allah! These three
    nights thou hast bereft us of sleep and given us no peace and
    made us taste the agonies of death!" "O folk," said my brother,
    "what ails you?" And they answered, "Thou givest us the change
    and goest about to dishonour us and to murder the master of the
    house! Is it not enough that thou hast brought him to beggary,
    thou and thy comrades? But give us up the knife, wherewith thou
    threatenest us every night." Then they searched him and found in
    his girdle the knife he used to cut leather; and he said, "O
    folk, have the fear of God before your eyes and maltreat me not,
    for know that my story is a strange one." "What is thy story?"
    asked they. So he told them what had befallen him, hoping that
    they would let him go; however, they paid no heed to what he
    said, but beat him and tore off his clothes, and finding on his
    sides the marks of beating with rods, said, "O accursed one,
    these scars bear witness to thy guilt!" Then they carried him to
    the chief of the police, whilst he said to himself, "I am undone
    for my sins and none can save me but God the Most High!" The
    prefect said to him, "O villain, what made thee enter their house
    with murderous intent?" "O Amir," replied my brother, "I conjure
    thee by Allah, hear my words and hasten not to condemn me!" But
    the two men said to the prefect, "Wilt thou listen to a robber,
    who beggars the folk and has the scars of beating on his back?"
    When the Amir saw the scars on my brother's sides, he said to
    him, "They had not done this to thee, save for some great crime."
    And he sentenced him to receive a hundred lashes. So they flogged
    him and mounting him on a camel, paraded him about the city,
    crying out, "This is the reward and the least of the reward of
    those who break into people's houses!" Then they thrust him forth
    the city, and he wandered at random, till I heard what had
    befallen him and going in search of him, questioned him of his
    case. So he told me all that passed and I carried him back
    privily to Baghdad, where I made him an allowance for his living.





    Story of the Barber's Fifth Brother.



    My fifth brother, he of the cropt ears, O Commander of the
    Faithful, was a poor man, who used to ask alms by night and live
    by day on what he got thus. Now, our father, who was an old man,
    far advanced in years, fell sick and died, leaving us seven
    hundred dirhems. So we took each of us a hundred; but when my
    brother received his share, he was at a loss to know what to do
    with it, till he bethought him to buy glass of all sorts and sell
    it at a profit. So he bought a hundred dirhems' worth of glass
    and putting it in a great basket, sat down, to sell it, on a
    raised bench, at the foot of a wall, against which he leant his
    back. As he sat, with the basket before him: he fell to musing in
    himself and said, "I have laid out a hundred dirhems on this
    glass and I will sell it for two hundred, with which I will buy
    other glass and sell it for four hundred; nor will I cease to
    buy and sell thus, till I have gotten much wealth. With this I
    will buy all kinds of merchandise and jewels and perfumes and
    gain great profit on them, till, God willing, I will make my
    capital a hundred thousand dirhems. Then I will buy a handsome
    house, together with slaves and horses and trappings of gold,
    and eat and drink, nor will I leave a singing-man or woman in
    the city but I will have them to sing to me. As soon as I have
    amassed a hundred thousand dirhems,[FN#105] I will send out
    marriage-brokers to demand for me in marriage the daughters of
    kings and viziers; and I will seek the hand of the Vizier's
    daughter, for I hear that she is perfect in beauty and of
    surpassing grace. I will give her a dowry of a thousand dinars,
    and if her father consent, well; if not, I will take her by
    force, in spite of him. When I return home, I will buy ten little
    eunuchs and clothes for myself such as are worn by kings and
    sultans and get me a saddle of gold, set thick with jewels of
    price. Then I will mount and parade the city, with slaves before
    and behind me, whilst the folk salute me and call down blessings
    upon me: after which I will repair to the Vizier, the girl's
    father, with slaves behind and before me, as well as on my either
    hand. When he sees me, he will rise and seating me in his own
    place, sit down below me, for that I am his son-in-law. Now I
    will have with me two eunuchs with purses, in each a thousand
    dinars, and I will deliver him the thousand dinars of the dowry
    and make him a present of other thousand, that he may have cause
    to know my nobility and generosity and greatness of mind and the
    littleness of the world in my eyes; and for ten words he proffers
    me, I will answer him two. Then I will return to my house, and if
    one come to me on the bride's part, I will make him a present of
    money and clothe him in a robe of honour; but if he bring me a
    present, I will return it to him and will not accept it, that
    they may know that I am great of soul. Then I will command them
    to bring her to me in state and will order my house fittingly in
    the meantime. When the time of the unveiling is come, I will don
    my richest clothes and sit down on a couch of brocaded silk,
    leaning on a cushion and turning neither to the right nor to the
    left, for the haughtiness of my mind and the gravity of my
    understanding. My wife shall stand before me like the full moon,
    in her robes and ornaments, and I, of my pride and my disdain,
    will not look at her, till all who are present shall say to me,
    'O my lord, thy wife and thy handmaid stands before thee: deign
    to look upon her! for standing is irksome to her.' And they will
    kiss the earth before me many times, whereupon I will lift my
    eyes and give one glance at her, then bend down my head again.
    Then they will carry her to the bride-chamber, and meanwhile I
    will rise and change my clothes for a richer suit. When they
    bring in the bride for the second time, I will not look at her
    till they have implored me several times, when I will glance at
    her and bow down my head; nor will I leave to do thus, till they
    have made an end of displaying her, when I will order one of my
    eunuchs to fetch a purse of five hundred dinars and giving it to
    the tire-women, command them to lead me to the bride-chamber.
    When they leave me alone with the bride, I will not look at her
    or speak to her, but will lie by her with averted face, that she
    may say I am high of soul. Presently her mother will come to me
    and kiss my head and hands and say to me, 'O my lord, look on thy
    handmaid, for she longs for thy favour, and heal her spirit. But
    I will give her no answer; and when she sees this, she will come
    and kiss my feet repeatedly and say, 'O my lord, verily my
    daughter is a beautiful girl, who has never seen man; and if thou
    show her this aversion, her heart will break; so do thou incline
    to her and speak to her.' Then she will rise and fetch a cup of
    wine, and her daughter will take it and come to me; but I will
    leave her standing before me, whilst I recline upon a cushion of
    cloth of gold, and will not look at her for the haughtiness of my
    heart, so that she will think me to be a Sultan of exceeding
    dignity and will say to me, 'O my lord, for God's sake, do not
    refuse to take the cup from thy servant's hand, for indeed I am
    thy handmaid.' But I will not speak to her, and she will press
    me, saying, 'Needs must thou drink it,' and put it to my lips.
    Then I will shake my fist in her face and spurn her with my foot
    thus." So saying, he gave a kick with his foot and knocked over
    the basket of glass, which fell to the ground, and all that was
    in it was broken. "All this comes of my pride!" cried he, and
    fell to buffeting his face and tearing his clothes and weeping.
    The folk who were going to the Friday prayers saw him, and some
    of them looked at him and pitied him, whilst others paid no heed
    to him, and in this way my brother lost both capital and profit.
    Presently there came up a beautiful lady, on her way to the
    Friday prayers, riding on a mule with a saddle of gold and
    attended by a number of servants and filling the air with the
    scent of musk, as she passed along. When she saw the broken glass
    and my brother weeping, she was moved to pity for him; so she
    asked what ailed him and was told that he had a basket full of
    glass, by the sale of which he thought to make his living, but it
    was broken, and this was the cause of his distress. So she called
    one of her attendants and said to him, "Give this poor man what
    is with thee." And he gave my brother a purse in which he found
    five hundred dinars, whereupon he was like to die for excess of
    joy and called down blessings on her. Then he returned to his
    house, a rich man; and as he sat considering, some one knocked at
    the door. So he rose and opened and saw an old woman whom he knew
    not. "O my son," said she, "the time of prayer is at hand, and I
    have not yet made the ablution; so I beg thee to let me do so in
    thy house." "I hear and obey," replied he, and bade her come in.
    So she entered and he brought her an ewer, wherewith to wash, and
    sat down, beside himself for joy in the dinars When she had made
    an end of her ablutions, she came up to where he sat and prayed a
    two-bow prayer, after which she offered up a goodly prayer my
    brother, who thanked her and putting his hand to the bag of
    money, gave her two dinars, saying in himself, "This is an alms
    from me." "Glory to God!" exclaimed she. "Why dost thou look on
    one, who loves thee, as if she were a beggar? Put up thy money! I
    have no need of it; or if thou want it not, return it to her who
    gave it thee, when thy glass was broken." "O my mother," asked
    he, "how shall I do to come at her?" "O my son," replied she,
    "she hath an inclination for thee, but she is the wife of a
    wealthy man of the city; so take all thy money with thee and
    follow me, that I may guide thee to thy desire: and when thou art
    in company with her, spare neither fair words nor persuasion, and
    thou shalt enjoy her beauty and her wealth to thy heart's
    content." So my brother took all his money and rose and followed
    the old woman, hardly believing in his good fortune. She led him
    on till they came to the door of a great house, at which she
    knocked, and a Greek slave-girl came out and opened to them. Then
    the old woman took my brother and brought him into a great
    saloon, spread with magnificent carpets and hung with curtains,
    where he sat down, with his money before him and his turban on
    his knee. Presently in came a young lady richly dressed, never
    saw eyes handsomer than she; whereupon my brother rose to his
    feet, but she smiled upon him and welcoming him, signed to him to
    be seated. Then she bade shut the door and taking my brother by
    the hand, led him to a private chamber, furnished with various
    kinds of brocaded silk. Here he sat down and she seated herself
    by his side and toyed with him awhile; after which she rose and
    saying, "Do not stir till I come back," went away. After awhile,
    in came a great black slave, with a drawn sword in his hand, who
    said to him, "Woe to thee! who brought thee hither and what dost
    thou want?" My brother could make no answer, being tongue-tied
    for fear; so the black seized him and stripping him of his
    clothes, beat him with the flat of his sword till he swooned
    away. Then the pestilent black concluded that he was dead, and my
    brother heard him say, "Where is the salt-wench?" Whereupon in
    came a slave-girl, with a great dish of salt, and the black
    strewed salt upon my brother's wounds; but he did not stir, lest
    he should know that he was alive and finish him. Then the
    salt-girl went away and the black cried out, "Where is the
    cellaress?" With this in came the old woman, and taking my
    brother by the feet, dragged him to an underground vault, where
    she threw him down upon a heap of dead bodies. There he remained
    two whole days, but God made the salt the means of saving his
    life, for it stayed the flow of blood. Presently, he found
    himself strong enough to move; so he rose and opening the
    trap-door, crept out fearfully; and God protected him, so that he
    went on in the darkness and hid himself in the vestibule till the
    morning, when he saw the cursed old woman sally forth in quest of
    other prey. So he went out after her, without her knowledge, and
    made for his own house, where he dressed his wounds and tended
    himself till he was whole. Meanwhile he kept a watch upon the old
    woman and saw her accost one man after another and carry them to
    the house. However, he said nothing; but as soon as he regained
    health and strength, he took a piece of stuff and made it into a
    bag, which he filled with broken glass and tied to his middle.
    Then he disguised himself in the habit of a foreigner, that none
    might know him, and hid a sword under his clothes. Then he went
    out and presently falling in with the old woman, accosted her and
    said to her, with a foreign accent, "O dame, I am a stranger, but
    this day arrived here, and know no one. Hast thou a pair of
    scales wherein I may weigh nine hundred dinars? I will give
    thee somewhat of the money for thy pains." "I have a son, a
    moneychanger," replied she, "who has all kinds of scales; so come
    with me to him, before he goes out, and he will weigh thy gold
    for thee." And he said, "Lead the way." So she led him to the
    house and knocked at the door; and the young lady herself came
    out and opened it; whereupon the old woman smiled in her face,
    saying, "I bring thee fat meat to-day." Then the damsel took him
    by the hand and carrying him to the same chamber as before, sat
    with him awhile, then rose and went out, bidding him stir not
    till she came back. Ere long in came the villainous black, with
    his sword drawn, and said to my brother, "Rise, O accursed one!"
    So he rose and as the slave went on before him, he drew the sword
    from under his clothes and smiting him with it, made his head fly
    from his body; after which he dragged the corpse by the feet to
    the vault and cried out, "Where is the salt-wench?" Up came the
    girl with the dish of salt, and seeing my brother sword in hand,
    turned to fly; but he followed her and smote her and struck off
    her head. Then he called out, "Where is the cellaress?" And in
    came the old woman, to whom said he, "Dost thou know me, O
    pestilent old woman?" "No, my lord," replied she; and he said, "I
    am he of the five hundred dinars, to whose house thou camest to
    make the ablution and pray, and whom thou didst after lure
    hither." "Fear God and spare me!" exclaimed she. But he paid no
    heed to her and striking her with the sword, cut her in four.
    Then he went in search of the young lady; and when she saw him,
    her reason fled and she called out for mercy. So he spared her
    and said to her, "How camest thou to consort with this black?"
    Quoth she, "I was slave to a certain merchant and the old woman
    used to visit me, till I became familiar with her. One day she
    said to me, 'We have to-day a wedding at our house, the like of
    which was never beheld, and I wish thee to see it.' 'I hear and
    obey,' answered I, and rising, donned my handsomest clothes and
    jewellery and took with me a purse containing a hundred dinars.
    Then she brought me hither, and hardly had I entered the house,
    when the black seized on me, and I have remained in this case
    these three years, through the perfidy of the accursed old
    woman." Then said my brother, "Is there aught of his in the
    house?" "He had great store of wealth," replied she: "and if thou
    canst carry it away, do so, and may God prosper it to thee!" Then
    she opened to him several chests full of purses, at which he was
    confounded, and said to him, "Go now and leave me here and fetch
    men to carry off the money." So he went out and hired ten men,
    but, when he returned, he found the door open and the damsel
    gone, and nothing left but a little of the money and the
    household stuff. By this, he knew that she had cheated him; so he
    opened the closets and took what was in them, together with the
    rest of the money, leaving nothing in the house, and passed the
    night in all content. When he arose in the morning, he found at
    the door a score of troopers, who seized him, saying, "The chief
    of the police seeks for thee." My brother implored them to let
    him return to his house, but they would grant him no delay,
    though he offered them a large sum of money, and binding him fast
    with cords, carried him off. On the way, there met them a friend
    of my brother, who clung to his skirts and implored him to stop
    and help to deliver him from their hands. So he stopped and
    enquired what was the matter; to which they replied, "The chief
    of the police has ordered us to bring this man before him, and we
    are doing so." The man interceded with them and offered them five
    hundred dinars to let my brother go, saying, "Tell the magistrate
    that ye could not find him." But they refused and dragged him
    before the prefect, who said to him, "Whence hadst thou these
    stuffs and money?" Quoth my brother, "Grant me indemnity." So the
    magistrate gave him the handkerchief of pardon, and he told him
    all that had befallen him, from first to last, including the
    flight of the damsel, adding, "Take what thou wilt, so thou leave
    me enough to live on." But the prefect took the whole of the
    stuff and money for himself and fearing lest the affair should
    reach the Sultan's ears, said to my brother, "Depart from this
    city, or I will hang thee." "I hear and obey," replied my
    brother, and set out for another town. On the way thieves fell on
    him and stripped him and beat him and cut off his ears. But I
    heard of his misfortunes and went out after him, taking him
    clothes, and brought him back privily to the city, where I made
    him an allowance for meat and drink.





    Story of the Barber's Sixth Brother



    My sixth brother, he of the cropt lips, O Commander of the
    Faithful, was once rich, but after became poor. One day he went
    out to seek somewhat to keep life in him and came presently to a
    handsome house, with a wide and lofty portico and servants and
    others at the door, ordering and forbidding. My brother enquired
    of one of those standing there and he told him that the house
    belonged to one of the Barmecide family. So he accosted the
    door-keepers and begged an alms of them. "Enter," said they, "and
    thou shalt get what thou seekest of our master." Accordingly, he
    entered and passing through the vestibule, found himself in a
    mansion of the utmost beauty and elegance, paved with marble and
    hung with curtains and having in the midst a garden whose like he
    had never seen. He stood awhile perplexed, knowing not whither to
    direct his steps: then seeing the door of a sitting-chamber,
    he entered and saw at the upper end a man of comely presence
    and goodly beard. When the latter saw my brother, he rose and
    welcomed him and enquired how he did; to which he replied that he
    was in need of charity. Whereupon the other showed great concern
    and putting his hand to his clothes, rent them, exclaiming, "Art
    thou hungry in a city of which I am an inhabitant? I cannot
    endure this!" and promised him all manner of good. Then said he,
    "Thou must eat with me." "O my lord," replied my brother, "I can
    wait no longer; for I am sore an hungred." So, the Barmecide
    cried out, "Ho, boy! bring the ewer and the basin!" and said to
    my brother, "O my guest, come forward and wash thy hands." My
    brother rose to do so, but saw neither ewer nor basin. However,
    the host made as if he were washing his hands and cried out,
    "Bring the table." But my brother saw nothing. Then said the
    Barmecide, "Honour me by eating of this food and be not ashamed."
    And he made as if he ate, saying the while, "Thou eatest but
    little: do not stint thyself, for I know thou art famished."
    So my brother began to make as if he ate, whilst the other said
    to him, "Eat and note the excellence of this bread and its
    whiteness." My brother could see nothing and said to himself,
    "This man loves to jest with the folk." So he replied, "O my
    lord, never in my life have I seen whiter or more delicious
    bread." And the host said, "I gave five hundred dinars for the
    slave-girl who bakes it for me." Then he called out, "Ho, boy!
    bring the frumenty first and do not spare butter on it." And
    turning to my brother, "O my guest," said he, "sawst thou ever
    aught better than this frumenty? Eat, I conjure thee, and be not
    ashamed!" Then he cried out again, "Ho, boy! bring in the pasty
    with the fatted grouse in it." And he said to my brother, "Eat, O
    my guest, for thou art hungry and needest it." So my brother
    began to move his jaws and make as if he chewed; whilst the other
    ceased not to call for dish after dish and press my brother to
    eat, though not a thing appeared. Presently, he cried out, "Ho,
    boy I bring us the chickens stuffed with pistachio-kernels!"
    And said to my brother, "These chickens have been fattened on
    pistachio-nuts; eat, for thou hast never tasted the like of
    them." "O my lord," replied my brother, "they are indeed
    excellent." Then the host feigned to put his hand to my brother's
    mouth, as if to feed him, and ceased not to name various dishes
    and expatiate upon their excellence. Meanwhile my brother was
    starving, and hunger was so sore on him that his soul lusted for
    a cake of barley bread. Quoth the Barmecide, "Didst thou ever
    taste aught more delicious than the seasoning of these dishes?"
    "Never, O my lord," replied my brother. "Eat heartily and be not
    ashamed," repeated the host. "O my lord," said my brother, "I
    have had enough of meat." So the Barmecide cried out, "Take away
    and bring the sweetmeats." Then he said, "Eat of this almond
    conserve, for it is excellent, and of these fritters. My life on
    thee, take this one before the syrup runs out of it!" "May I
    never be bereaved of thee, O my lord!" replied my brother, and
    asked him of the abundance of musk in the fritters. "It is my
    custom," said the other, "to have three pennyweights of musk and
    half that quantity of ambergris put into each fritter." All
    this time my brother was wagging his jaws and moving his head
    and mouth, till the host said, "Enough of this! Bring us the
    dessert." Then said he to him, "Eat of these almonds and walnuts
    and raisins and of this and that," naming different kinds of
    dried fruits, "and be not ashamed." "O my lord," answered my
    brother, "indeed I am full: I can eat no more." "O my guest,"
    repeated the other, "if thou have a mind to eat more, for God's
    sake do not remain hungry!" "O my lord," replied my brother, "how
    should one who has eaten of all these dishes be hungry?" Then he
    considered and said to himself "I will do that which shall make
    him repent of having acted thus." Presently the host called out,
    "Bring me the wine," and making as if it had come, feigned to
    give my brother to drink, saying, "Take this cup, and if it
    please thee, let me know." "O my lord," replied he, "it has a
    pleasant smell, but I am used to drink old wine twenty years of
    age." "Then knock at this door,"[FN#106] said his host; "for thou
    canst not drink of aught better." "O my lord, this is of thy
    bounty!" replied my brother and made as if he drank. "Health and
    pleasure to thee!" exclaimed the host, and feigned, in like wise,
    to fill a cup and drink it off and hand a second cup to my
    brother, who pretended to drink and made as if he were drunken.
    Then he took the Barmecide unawares and raising his arm, till the
    whiteness of his arm-pit appeared, dealt him such a buffet on the
    neck that the place rang to it. Then he gave him a second cuff
    and the host exclaimed, "What is this, O vile fellow?" "O my
    lord," replied my brother "thou hast graciously admitted thy
    slave into thine abode and fed him with thy victual and plied him
    with old wine, till he became drunk and dealt unmannerly by thee;
    but thou art too noble not to bear with his ignorance and pardon
    his offence." When the Barmecide heard my brother's words, he
    laughed heartily and exclaimed, "Long have I used to make mock of
    men and play the fool with those who are apt at jesting and
    horse-play; but never have I come across any, who had patience
    and wit to enter into all my humours, but thee; so I pardon thee,
    and now thou shalt be my boon companion, in very deed, and never
    leave me." Then he bade his servants lay the table in good
    earnest, and they set on all the dishes of which he had spoken,
    and he and my brother ate till they were satisfied, after which
    they removed to the drinking-chamber, where they found damsels
    like moons, who sang all manner of songs and played on all kinds
    of musical instruments. There they remained, drinking, till
    drunkenness overcame them, and the host used my brother as a
    familiar friend, so that he became as it were his brother, and
    bestowed on him a dress of honour and loved him with an exceeding
    love. Next morning, they fell again to feasting and carousing,
    and ceased not to lead this life for twenty years, at the end of
    which time the Barmecide died and the Sultan laid hands on all
    his property and squeezed my brother, till he stripped him of all
    he had. So he left the city and fled forth at random, but the
    Arabs fell on him midway and taking him prisoner, carried him to
    their camp, where the Bedouin, his captor, tortured him, saying,
    "Ransom thyself with money, or I will kill thee." My brother fell
    a-weeping and replied, "By Allah, I have nought! I am thy
    prisoner; do with me as thou wilt." Thereupon the Bedouin took
    out a knife and cut off my brother's lips, still urging his
    demand. Now this Bedouin had a handsome wife, who used to make
    advances to my brother, in her husband's absence, and offer him
    her favours, but he held off from her. One day, she began to
    tempt him as usual, and he toyed with her and took her on his
    knee, when lo, in came the Bedouin, and seeing this, cried out,
    "Woe to thee, thou villain! Wouldst thou debauch my wife?" Then
    he took out a knife and cut off my brother's yard, after which he
    set him on a camel and carried him to a mountain, where he threw
    him down and left him. Here he was found by some travellers, who
    recognized him and gave him meat and drink and acquainted me with
    his plight, whereupon I went forth to him and brought him back to
    Baghdad, where I provided him with enough to live on. This then,
    O Commander of the Faithful, is the history of my brothers, and I
    was unwilling to go away without relating it to thee, that I
    might disabuse thee of thine error in confounding me with them.
    And now thou knowest that I have six brothers and support them
    all.' When the Khalif heard my words, he laughed and said, 'Thou
    sayst sooth, O Silent One! Thou art neither a man of many words
    nor an impertinent meddler; but now go out from this city and
    settle in another.' And he banished me from the city; so I left
    Baghdad and travelled in foreign countries, till I heard of his
    death and the coming of another to the Khalifate. Then I returned
    to Baghdad, where I found my brothers dead and fell in with this
    young man, to whom I rendered the best of services, for without
    me he had been killed. Indeed he accuses me of what is foreign to
    my nature and what he relates of my impertinence is false; for
    verily I left Baghdad on his account and wandered in many
    countries, till I came to this city and happened on him with you;
    and was not this, O good people, of the generosity of my nature?"

    When we heard the barber's story (continued the tailor) and saw
    the abundance of his speech and the way in which he had oppressed
    the young man, we laid hands on him and shut him up, after which
    we sat down in peace and ate and drank till the time of the call
    to afternoon-prayer, when I left the company and returned home.
    My wife was sulky and said to me, "Thou hast taken thy pleasure
    all day, whilst I have been moping at home. So now, except thou
    carry me abroad and amuse me for the rest of the day, it will be
    the cause of my separation from thee." So I took her out and we
    amused ourselves till nightfall, when we returned home and met
    the hunchback, brimming over with drunkenness and repeating the
    following verses:

    The glass is pellucid, and so is the wine: So bring them together
    and see them combine:
    Tis a puzzle; one moment, all wine and no cup; At another, in
    turn, 'tis all cup and no wine.

    So I invited him to pass the evening with us and went out to buy
    fried fish, after which we sat down to eat. Presently my wife
    took a piece of bread and fish and crammed them into his mouth,
    and he choked and died. Then I took him up and made shift to
    throw him into the house of the Jewish physician. He in his turn
    let him down into the house of the controller, who threw him in
    the way of the Christian broker. This, then, is my story. Is it
    not more wonderful than that of the hunchback?'

    When the King heard the tailor's story, he shook his head for
    delight and showed astonishment, saying, 'This that passed
    between the young man and the meddlesome barber is indeed more
    pleasant and more wonderful than the story of that knave of a
    hunchback.' Then he bade the tailor take one of the chamberlains
    and fetch the barber out of his duresse, saying, 'Bring him to
    me, that I may hear his talk, and it shall be the means of the
    release of all of you. Then we will bury the hunchback, for he is
    dead since yesterday, and set up a tomb over him.' So the
    chamberlain and the tailor went away and presently returned with
    the barber. The King looked at him and behold, he was a very old
    man, more than ninety years of age, of a swarthy complexion and
    white beard and eyebrows, flap-eared, long-nosed and simple and
    conceited of aspect. The King laughed at his appearance and said
    to him, 'O silent man, I desire thee to tell me somewhat of thy
    history.' 'O King of the age,' replied the barber, 'why are all
    these men and this dead hunchback before thee?' Said the King,
    'Why dost thou ask?' 'I ask this,' rejoined the barber, 'that
    your Majesty may know that I am no impertinent meddler and that I
    am guiltless of that they lay to my charge of overmuch talk; for
    I am called the Silent, and indeed I am the man of my name, as
    says the poet:

    Thine eyes shall seldom see a man that doth a nickname bear, But,
         if thou search, thou'lt find the name his nature doth
         declare.

    So the King said, 'Explain the hunchback's case to him and repeat
    to him the stories told by the physician, the controller, the
    broker and the tailor.' They did as he commanded, and the barber
    shook his head and exclaimed, 'By Allah, this is indeed a wonder
    of wonders!' Then said he, 'Uncover the hunchback's body, that
    I may see it.' They did so, and he sat down and taking the
    hunchback's head in his lap, looked at his face and laughed till
    he fell backward. Then said he, 'To every death there is a cause;
    but the story of this hunchback deserves to be recorded in
    letters of gold!' The bystanders were astounded at his words and
    the King wondered and said to him, 'O silent man, explain thy
    words to us.' 'O King of the age,' replied the barber, 'by thy
    munificence, there is yet life in this hunchback.' Then he pulled
    out from his girdle a barber's budget, whence he took a pot of
    ointment and anointed therewith the neck of the hunchback and its
    veins. Then he took out a pair of tweezers and thrusting them
    down the hunchback's throat, drew out the piece of fish and its
    bone, soaked in blood. Thereupon the hunchback sneezed and sat
    up, and passing his hand over his face, exclaimed, 'I testify
    that there is no god but God and that Mohammed is His Apostle!'
    At this all present wondered and the King laughed, till he
    fainted, and so did the others. Then said the King, 'By Allah,
    this is the most wonderful thing I ever saw! O Muslims, O
    soldiers all, did you ever in your lives see a man die and come
    to life again? For verily, had not God vouchsafed him this barber
    to be the cause of his preservation, he had been dead!' 'By
    Allah,' said they, 'this is a wonder of wonders!' Then the King
    caused the whole history to be recorded and laid up in the royal
    treasury; after which he bestowed splendid dresses of honour on
    the Jew, the broker and the controller and sent them away. Then
    he gave the tailor a costly dress of honour and appointed him his
    own tailor, with a suitable stipend, and made peace between him
    and the hunchback, on whom he also bestowed a rich and fair dress
    of honour and made him his boon-companion, appointing him due
    allowances. As for the barber, he made him a like present and
    appointed him state barber and one of his boon-companions,
    assigning him regular allowances and a fixed salary. And they all
    ceased not from the enjoyment of all the delights and comforts of
    life, till there overtook them the Destroyer of delights and the
    Sunderer of companies.
