It has been related to me, O happy King, said Shahrazád, that there was
    a certain merchant who had great wealth, and traded extensively with
    surrounding countries; and one day he mounted his horse, and journeyed
    to a neighbouring country to collect what was due to him, and, the heat
    oppressing him, he sat under a tree, in a garden,[I_1] and put his
    hand into his saddle-bag,[I_2] and ate a morsel of bread and a date
    which were among his provisions. Having eaten the date, he threw aside
    the stone,[I_3] and immediately there appeared before him an
    'Efreet, of enormous height, who, holding a drawn sword in his hand,
    approached him, and said, Rise, that I may kill thee, as thou hast
    killed my son. The merchant asked him, How have I killed thy son? He
    answered, When thou atest the date, and threwest aside the stone, it
    struck my son upon the chest,[I_4] and, as fate had decreed against
    him, he instantly died.[I_5]

    [Illustration]

    The merchant, on hearing these words,[I_6] exclaimed, Verily to God
    we belong, and verily to Him we must return! There is no strength nor
    power but in God, the High, the Great! If I killed him, I did it not
    intentionally, but without knowing it; and I trust in thee that thou
    wilt pardon me.--The Jinnee answered, Thy death is indispensable, as
    thou hast killed my son:--and so saying, he dragged him, and threw him
    on the ground, and raised his arm to strike him with the sword. The
    merchant, upon this, wept bitterly, and said to the Jinnee, I commit my
    affair unto God, for no one can avoid what He hath decreed:--and he
    continued his lamentation, repeating the following verses:--

      Time consists of two days; this, bright; and that, gloomy: and life,
        of two moieties; this, safe; and that, fearful.
      Say to him who hath taunted us on account of misfortunes, Doth fortune
        oppose any but the eminent?
      Dost thou not observe that corpses float upon the sea, while
        the precious pearls remain in its furthest depths?
      When the hands of time play with us, misfortune is imparted to us by
        its protracted kiss.
      In the heaven are stars that cannot be numbered; but none is eclipsed
        save the sun and the moon.
      How many green and dry trees are on the earth; but none is assailed
        with stones save that which beareth fruit!
      Thou thoughtest well of the days when they went well with thee,
        and fearedst not the evil that destiny was bringing.

    --When he had finished reciting these verses, the Jinnee said to him,
    Spare thy words, for thy death is unavoidable.

    Then said the merchant, Know, O 'Efreet, that I have debts to pay, and I
    have much property, and children, and a wife, and I have pledges also in
    my possession: let me, therefore, go back to my house, and give to every
    one his due, and then I will return to thee: I bind myself by a vow and
    covenant that I will return to thee, and thou shalt do what thou wilt;
    and God is witness of what I say.--Upon this, the Jinnee accepted his
    covenant, and liberated him; granting him a respite until the expiration
    of the year.

    The merchant, therefore, returned to his town, accomplished all that was
    upon his mind to do, paid every one what he owed him, and informed his
    wife and children of the event which had befallen him; upon hearing
    which, they and all his family and women wept. He appointed a guardian
    over his children, and remained with his family until the end of the
    year; when he took his grave-clothes under his arm,[I_7] bade
    farewell to his household and neighbours, and all his relations, and
    went forth, in spite of himself; his family raising cries of
    lamentation, and shrieking.[I_8]

    He proceeded until he arrived at the garden before mentioned; and it was
    the first day of the new year; and as he sat, weeping for the calamity
    which he expected soon to befall him, a sheykh,[I_9] advanced in
    years, approached him, leading a gazelle with a chain attached to its
    neck. This sheykh saluted the merchant, wishing him a long life, and
    said to him, What is the reason of thy sitting alone in this place,
    seeing that it is a resort of the Jinn? The merchant therefore informed
    him of what had befallen him with the 'Efreet, and of the cause of his
    sitting there; at which the sheykh, the owner of the gazelle, was
    astonished, and said, By Allah, O my brother, thy faithfulness is great,
    and thy story is wonderful! if it were engraved upon the intellect, it
    would be a lesson to him who would be admonished!--And he sat down by
    his side, and said, By Allah, O my brother, I will not quit this place
    until I see what will happen unto thee with this 'Efreet. So he sat
    down, and conversed with him. And the merchant became almost senseless;
    fear entered him, and terror, and violent grief, and excessive anxiety.
    And as the owner of the gazelle sat by his side, lo, a second sheykh
    approached them, with two black hounds, and inquired of them, after
    saluting them, the reason of their sitting in that place, seeing that it
    was a resort of the Jánn:[I_10] and they told him the story from
    beginning to end. And he had hardly sat down when there approached them
    a third sheykh, with a dapple mule; and he asked them the same question,
    which was answered in the same manner.

    [Illustration]

    Immediately after, the dust was agitated, and became an enormous
    revolving pillar, approaching them from the midst of the desert; and
    this dust subsided, and behold, the Jinnee, with a drawn sword in his
    hand; his eyes casting forth sparks of fire. He came to them, and
    dragged from them the merchant, and said to him, Rise, that I may kill
    thee, as thou killedst my son, the vital spirit of my heart. And the
    merchant wailed and wept; and the three sheykhs also manifested their
    sorrow by weeping and crying aloud and wailing: but the first sheykh,
    who was the owner of the gazelle, recovering his self-possession, kissed
    the hand of the 'Efreet, and said to him, O thou Jinnee, and crown of
    the kings of the Jánn, if I relate to thee the story of myself and this
    gazelle, and thou find it to be wonderful, and more so than the
    adventure of this merchant, wilt thou give up to me a third of thy
    claim to his blood? He answered, Yes, O sheykh; if thou relate to me the
    story, and I find it to be as thou hast said, I will give up to thee a
    third of my claim to his blood.
