There was a man of the city of Baghdád, who was unmarried, and he was a
    porter; and one day, as he sat in the market, reclining against his
    crate,[III_1] there accosted him a female wrapped in an
    izár[III_2] of the manufacture of El-Móṣil,[III_3] composed of
    gold-embroidered silk, with a border of gold lace at each end, who
    raised her face-veil, and displayed beneath it a pair of black eyes,
    with lids bordered by long lashes, exhibiting a tender expression, and
    features of perfect beauty; and she said, with a sweet voice, Bring thy
    crate, and follow me.

    The porter had scarcely heard her words when he took up his crate, and
    he followed her until she stopped at the door of a house, and knocked;
    whereupon there came down to her a Christian, and she gave him a piece
    of gold, and received for it a quantity of olives, and two large vessels
    of wine,[III_4] which she placed in the crate, saying to the
    porter, Take it up, and follow me. The porter exclaimed, This is,
    indeed, a fortunate day!--and he took up the crate, and followed her.
    She next stopped at the shop of a fruiterer, and bought of him Syrian
    apples, and 'Othmánee quinces,[III_5] and peaches of 'Omán, and
    jasmine of Aleppo, and water-lilies of Damascus, and cucumbers of the
    Nile, and Egyptian limes, and Sulṭánee citrons, and sweet-scented
    myrtle, and sprigs of the ḥennà-tree, and chamomile, and anemones, and
    violets, and pomegranate flowers, and eglantine: all these she put into
    the porter's crate, and said to him, Take it up. So he took it up, and
    followed her until she stopped at the shop of a butcher, to whom she
    said, Cut off ten pounds of meat;--and he cut it off for her, and she
    wrapped it in a leaf of a banana-tree, and put it in the crate, and said
    again, Take it up, O porter:--and he did so, and followed her. She next
    stopped at the shop of a seller of dry fruits, and took some of every
    kind of these, and desired the porter to take up his burden. Having
    obeyed, he followed her until she stopped at the shop of a confectioner,
    where she bought a dish, and filled it with sweets of every kind that he
    had,[III_6] which she put into the crate; whereupon the porter
    ventured to say, If thou hadst informed me beforehand, I had brought
    with me a mule to carry all these things. The lady smiled at his remark,
    and next stopped at the shop of a perfumer, of whom she bought ten kinds
    of scented waters; rose-water, and orange-flower-water, and
    willow-flower-water,[III_7] &c.; together with some sugar, and a
    sprinkling-bottle[III_8] of rose-water infused with musk, and some
    frankincense, and aloes-wood, and ambergris, and musk, and wax candles;
    and, placing all these in the crate, she said, Take up thy crate, and
    follow me. He, therefore, took it up, and followed her until she came to
    a handsome house, before which was a spacious court. It was a lofty
    structure, with a door of two leaves, composed of ebony, overlaid with
    plates of red gold.[III_9]

    The young lady stopped at this door, and knocked gently; whereupon both
    its leaves were opened, and the porter, looking to see who opened it,
    found it to be a damsel of tall stature, high-bosomed, fair and
    beautiful, and of elegant form, with a forehead like the bright new
    moon, eyes like those of gazelles, eyebrows like the new moon of
    Ramaḍán,[III_10] cheeks resembling anemones, and a mouth like the
    seal of Suleymán:[III_11] her countenance was like the full moon in
    its splendour, and the forms of her bosom resembled two pomegranates of
    equal size. When the porter beheld her, she captivated his reason, the
    crate nearly fell from his head, and he exclaimed, Never in my life have
    I seen a more fortunate day than this! The lady-portress, standing
    within the door, said to the cateress and the porter, Ye are
    welcome:--and they entered, and proceeded to a spacious
    saloon,[III_12] decorated with various colours, and beautifully
    constructed, with carved wood-work, and fountains, and benches of
    different kinds, and closets with curtains hanging before them; there
    was also in it, at the upper end,[III_13] a couch of alabaster
    inlaid with large pearls and jewels, with a musquito-curtain of red
    satin suspended over it, and within this was a young lady with eyes
    possessing the enchantment of Bábil,[III_14] and a figure like the
    letter Alif,[III_15] with a face that put to shame the shining sun:
    she was like one of the brilliant planets, or rather, one of the most
    high-born of the maidens of Arabia. This third lady,[III_16] rising
    from the couch, advanced with a slow and elegant gait to the middle of
    the saloon, where her sisters were standing, and said to them, Why stand
    ye still? Lift down the burden from the head of this poor
    porter:--whereupon the cateress placed herself before him, and the
    portress behind him, and, the third lady assisting them, they lifted it
    down from his head. They then took out the contents of the crate, and,
    having put every thing in its place, gave to the porter two pieces of
    gold, saying to him, Depart, O porter.

    The porter, however, stood looking at the ladies, and admiring their
    beauty and their agreeable dispositions; for he had never seen any more
    handsome; and when he observed that they had not a man among them, and
    gazed upon the wine, and fruits, and sweet-scented flowers, which were
    there, he was full of astonishment, and hesitated to go out; upon which
    one of the ladies said to him, Why dost thou not go? dost thou deem thy
    hire too little? Then turning to one of her sisters, she said to her,
    Give him another piece of gold.--By Allah, O my mistress, exclaimed the
    porter, my hire is but two half-dirhems,[III_17] and I thought not
    what ye have given me too little; but my heart and mind were occupied
    with reflections upon you and your state, ye being alone, with no man
    among you, not one to amuse you with his company; for ye know that the
    menáreh[III_18] standeth not firmly but on four walls: now ye have
    not a fourth, and the pleasure of women is not complete without men: ye
    are three only, and have need of a fourth, who should be a man, a
    person of sense, discreet, acute, and a concealer of secrets. We are
    maidens, they replied; and fear to impart our secret to him who will not
    keep it; for we have read, in a certain history, this verse:--

      Guard thy secret from another: intrust it not: for he who intrusteth
        a secret hath lost it.

    [Illustration]

    --By your existence, said the porter, I am a man of sense, and
    trustworthy: I have read various books, and perused histories: I make
    known what is fair, and conceal what is foul, and act in accordance with
    the saying of the poet:--

      None keepeth a secret but a faithful person: with the best of mankind
        it remaineth concealed.
      A secret is with me as in a house with a lock, whose key is lost,
        and whose door is sealed.[III_19]

    When the ladies heard the verses which he quoted, and the words with
    which he addressed them, they said to him, Thou knowest that we have
    expended here a considerable sum of money: hast thou then wherewith to
    requite us? We will not suffer thee to remain with us unless thou
    contribute a sum of money; for thou desirest to sit with us, and to be
    our cup-companion, and to gaze upon our beautiful faces.--If friendship
    is without money, said the mistress of the house, it is not equivalent
    to the weight of a grain:--and the portress added, If thou hast nothing,
    depart with nothing:--but the cateress said, O sister, let us suffer
    him; for, verily, he hath not been deficient in his services for us this
    day: another had not been so patient with us: whatever, therefore, falls
    to his share of the expense, I will defray for him.--At this the porter
    rejoiced, and exclaimed, By Allah, I obtained my first and only pay this
    day from none but thee:--and the other ladies said to him, Sit down:
    thou art welcome.

    The cateress then arose, and, having tightened her girdle, arranged the
    bottles, and strained the wine, and prepared the table by the pool of
    the fountain. She made ready all that they required, brought the wine,
    and sat down with her sisters; the porter also sitting with them,
    thinking he was in a dream. And when they had seated themselves, the
    cateress took a jar of wine, and filled the first cup, and drank
    it:[III_20] she then filled another, and handed it to one of her
    sisters; and in like manner she did to her other sister; after which she
    filled again, and handed the cup to the porter, who, having taken it
    from her hand, repeated this verse:--

      I will drink the wine, and enjoy health; for, verily, this beverage
        is a remedy for disease.

    [Illustration]

    The wine continued to circulate among them, and the porter, taking his
    part in the revels, dancing and singing with them, and enjoying
    the fragrant odours, began to hug and kiss them, while one
    slapped[III_21] him, and another pulled him, and the third beat
    him with sweet-scented flowers, till, at length, the wine made sport
    with their reason; and they threw off all restraint, indulging
    their merriment with as much freedom as if no man had been
    present.[III_22]

    Thus they continued until the approach of night, when they
    said to the porter, Depart, and shew us the breadth of thy
    shoulders;[III_23]--but he replied, Verily the departure of my soul
    from my body were more easy to me than my departure from your company;
    therefore suffer us to join the night to the day, and then each of us
    shall return to his own, or her own, affairs. The cateress, also, again
    interceded for him, saying, By my life I conjure you that ye suffer him
    to pass the night with us, that we may laugh at his drolleries, for he
    is a witty rogue. So they said to him, Thou shalt pass the night with us
    on this condition, that thou submit to our authority, and ask not an
    explanation of anything that thou shalt see. He replied, Good.--Rise
    then, said they, and read what is inscribed upon the door. Accordingly,
    he went to the door, and found the following inscription upon it in
    letters of gold, Speak not of that which doth not concern thee, lest
    thou hear that which will not please thee:--and he said, Bear witness to
    my promise that I will not speak of that which doth not concern me.

    [Illustration]

    The cateress then rose, and prepared for them a repast; and, after they
    had eaten a little, they lighted the candles and burnt some aloes-wood.
    This done, they sat down again to the table; and, while they were eating
    and drinking, they heard a knocking at the door; whereupon, without
    causing any interruption to their meal, one of them went to the door,
    and, on her return, said, Our pleasure this night is now complete, for I
    have found, at the door, three foreigners[III_24] with shaven
    chins, and each of them is blind of the left eye: it is an extraordinary
    coincidence. They are strangers newly arrived,[III_25] and each of
    them has a ridiculous appearance: if they come in, therefore, we shall
    be amused with laughing at them.--The lady ceased not with these words,
    but continued to persuade her sisters until they consented, and said,
    Let them enter; but make it a condition with them that they speak not of
    that which doth not concern them, lest they hear that which will not
    please them. Upon this she rejoiced, and, having gone again to the door,
    brought in the three men blind of one eye and with shaven chins, and
    they had thin and twisted mustaches. Being mendicants, they saluted and
    drew back; but the ladies rose to them, and seated them; and when these
    three men looked at the porter, they saw that he was intoxicated; and,
    observing him narrowly, they thought that he was one of their own class,
    and said, He is a mendicant like ourselves, and will amuse us by his
    conversation:--but the porter, hearing what they said, arose, and rolled
    his eyes, and exclaimed to them, Sit quiet, and abstain from impertinent
    remarks. Have ye not read the inscription upon the door?--The ladies,
    laughing, said to each other, Between the mendicants and the porter we
    shall find matter for amusement. They then placed before the former some
    food, and they ate, and then sat to drink. The portress handed to them
    the wine, and, as the cup was circulating among them, the porter said to
    them, Brothers, have ye any tale or strange anecdote wherewith to amuse
    us? The mendicants, heated by the wine, asked for musical instruments;
    and the portress brought them a tambourine of the manufacture of
    El-Móṣil, with a lute of El-'Eráḳ, and a Persian harp;[III_26]
    whereupon they all arose; and one took the tambourine; another, the
    lute; and the third, the harp: and they played upon these instruments,
    the ladies accompanying them with loud songs; and while they were thus
    diverting themselves, a person knocked at the door. The portress,
    therefore, went to see who was there; and the cause of the knocking was
    this.

    [Illustration]

    The Khaleefeh[III_27] Hároon Er-Rasheed had gone forth this night to see
    and hear what news he could collect, accompanied by Jaạfar[III_28] his
    Wezeer, and Mesroor[III_29] his executioner. It was his custom to
    disguise himself in the attire of a merchant; and this night, as he went
    through the city, he happened to pass, with his attendants, by the house
    of these ladies, and hearing the sounds of the musical instruments, he
    said to Jaạfar, I have a desire to enter this house, and to see who is
    giving this concert.--They are a party who have become intoxicated,
    replied Jaạfar, and I fear that we may experience some ill usage from
    them;--but the Khaleefeh said, We must enter, and I would that thou
    devise some stratagem by which we may obtain admission to the inmates.
    Jaạfar therefore answered, I hear and obey:--and he advanced, and
    knocked at the door; and when the portress came and opened the door, he
    said to her, My mistress, we are merchants from Tabareeyeh,[III_30] and
    have been in Baghdád ten days; we have brought with us merchandise, and
    taken lodgings in a Khán;[III_31] and a merchant invited us to an
    entertainment this night: accordingly, we went to his house, and he
    placed food before us, and we ate, and sat awhile drinking together,
    after which he gave us leave to depart;[III_32] and going out in the
    dark, and being strangers, we missed our way to the Khán: we trust,
    therefore, in your generosity that you will admit us to pass the night
    in your house; by doing which you will obtain a reward in heaven.--The
    portress, looking at them, and observing that they were in the garb of
    merchants, and that they bore an appearance of respectability, returned,
    and consulted her two companions; and they said to her, Admit them:--so
    she returned, and opened to them the door. They said to her, Shall we
    enter with thy permission? She answered, Come in. The Khaleefeh,
    therefore, entered, with Jaạfar and Mesroor; and when the ladies saw
    them, they rose to them, and served them, saying, Welcome are our
    guests; but we have a condition to impose upon you, that ye speak not of
    that which doth not concern you, lest ye hear that which will not please
    you. They answered, Good:--and when they had sat down to drink, the
    Khaleefeh looked at the three mendicants, and was surprised at observing
    that each of them was blind of the left eye; and he gazed upon the
    ladies, and was perplexed and amazed at their fairness and beauty. And
    when the others proceeded to drink and converse, the ladies brought wine
    to the Khaleefeh; but he said, I am a pilgrim;[III_33]--and drew back
    from them. Whereupon the portress spread before him an embroidered
    cloth, and placed upon it a China bottle, into which she poured some
    willow-flower-water, adding to it a lump of ice, and sweetening it with
    sugar, while the Khaleefeh thanked her, and said within himself,
    To-morrow I must reward her for this kind action.

    The party continued their carousal, and, when the wine took effect upon
    them, the mistress of the house arose, and waited upon them; and
    afterwards, taking the hand of the cateress, said, Arise, O my sister,
    that we may fulfil our debt. She replied, Good. The portress then rose,
    and, after she had cleared the middle of the saloon, placed the
    mendicants at the further end, beyond the doors; after which, the ladies
    called to the porter, saying, How slight is thy friendship! thou art not
    a stranger, but one of the family. So the porter arose, and girded
    himself, and said, What would ye?--to which one of the ladies answered,
    Stand where thou art:--and presently the cateress said to him, Assist
    me:--and he saw two black bitches, with chains attached to their necks,
    and drew them to the middle of the saloon; whereupon the mistress of the
    house arose from her place, and tucked up her sleeve above her wrist,
    and, taking a whip, said to the porter, Bring to me one of them.
    Accordingly, he dragged one forward by the chain. The bitch whined, and
    shook her head at the lady; but the latter fell to beating her upon the
    head, notwithstanding her howling, until her arms were tired, when she
    threw the whip from her hand, and pressed the bitch to her bosom, and
    wiped away her tears, and kissed her head; after which she said to the
    porter, Take her back, and bring the other;--and he brought her, and she
    did to her as she had done to the first. At the sight of this, the mind
    of the Khaleefeh was troubled, and his heart was contracted, and he
    winked to Jaạfar that he should ask her the reason; but he replied by a
    sign, Speak not.

    [Illustration]

    The mistress of the house then looked towards the portress, and said to
    her, Arise to perform what thou hast to do. She replied, Good:--and the
    mistress of the house seated herself upon a couch of alabaster, overlaid
    with gold and silver, and said to the portress and the cateress, Now
    perform your parts. The portress then seated herself upon a couch by
    her; and the cateress, having entered a closet, brought out from it a
    bag of satin with green fringes, and, placing herself before the lady of
    the house, shook it, and took out from it a lute; and she tuned its
    strings, and sang to it these verses:--

      Restore to my eyelids the sleep which hath been ravished;
        and inform me of my reason, whither it hath fled.
      I discovered, when I took up my abode with love, that slumber had
        become an enemy to my eyes.
      They said, We saw thee to be one of the upright; what, then, hath
        seduced thee? I answered, Seek the cause from his glance.
      Verily I excuse him for the shedding of my blood, admitting that
        I urged him to the deed by vexation.
      He cast his sun-like image upon the mirror of my mind, and its
        reflection kindled a flame in my vitals.[III_34]

    When the portress[III_35] had heard this song, she exclaimed, Allah
    approve thee!--and she rent her clothes, and fell upon the floor in a
    swoon; and when her bosom was thus uncovered, the Khaleefeh saw upon her
    the marks of beating, as if from miḳra'ahs[III_36] and whips; at
    which he was greatly surprised. The cateress[III_37] immediately
    arose, sprinkled water upon her face, and brought her another dress,
    which she put on. The Khaleefeh then said to Jaạfar, Seest thou not this
    woman, and the marks of beating upon her? I cannot keep silence
    respecting this affair, nor be at rest, until I know the truth of the
    history of this damsel, and that of these two bitches. But Jaạfar
    replied, O our lord, they have made a covenant with us that we shall not
    speak excepting of that which concerneth us, lest we hear that which
    will not please us.--The cateress then took the lute again, and, placing
    it against her bosom, touched the chords with the ends of her fingers,
    and thus sang to it:--

    [Illustration]

      If of love we complain, what shall we say? Or consuming through desire,
        how can we escape?
      Or if we send a messenger to interpret for us, he cannot convey
        the lover's complaint.
      Or if we would be patient, short were our existence after the loss
        of those we love.
      Nought remaineth to us but grief and mourning, and tears streaming
        down our cheeks.
      O you who are absent from my sight, but constantly dwelling within
        my heart!
      Have you kept your faith to an impassioned lover, who, while time
        endureth, will never change?
      Or, in absence, have you forgotten that lover who, on your account,
        is wasting away?
      When the day of judgment shall bring us together, I will beg of
        our Lord a protractive trial.[III_38]

    On hearing these verses of the cateress, the portress again rent her
    clothes, and cried out, and fell upon the floor in a swoon; and the
    cateress, as before, put on her another dress, after she had sprinkled
    some water upon her face.[III_39]

    The mendicants, when they witnessed this scene, said, Would that we had
    never entered this house, but rather had passed the night upon the
    mounds;[III_40] for our night hath been rendered foul by an event
    that breaketh the back! The Khaleefeh, looking towards them, then said,
    Wherefore is it so with you? They answered, Our hearts are troubled by
    this occurrence.--Are ye not, he asked, of this house?--No, they
    answered; nor did we imagine that this house belonged to any but the man
    who is sitting with you:--upon which the porter said, Verily, I have
    never seen this place before this night; and I would that I had passed
    the night upon the mounds rather than here. They then observed, one to
    another, We are seven men, and they are but three women; we will,
    therefore, ask them of their history; and if they answer us not
    willingly they shall do it in spite of themselves:--and they all agreed
    to this, excepting Jaạfar, who said, This is not a right determination;
    leave them to themselves, for we are their guests, and they made a
    covenant with us which we should fulfil: there remaineth but little of
    the night, and each of us shall soon go his way. Then, winking to the
    Khaleefeh, he said, There remaineth but an hour; and to-morrow we will
    bring them before thee, and thou shalt ask them their story. But the
    Khaleefeh refused to do so, and said, I have not patience to wait so
    long for their history.--Words followed words, and at last they said,
    Who shall put the question to them?--and one answered, The porter.

    [Illustration]

    The ladies then said to them, O people, of what are ye talking?--whereupon
    the porter approached the mistress of the house, and said to her, O my
    mistress, I ask thee, and conjure thee by Allah, to tell us the story of
    the two bitches, and for what reason thou didst beat them, and then
    didst weep, and kiss them, and that thou acquaint us with the cause of
    thy sister's having been beaten with miḳra'ahs: that is our question,
    and peace be on you.--Is this true that he saith of you? inquired the
    lady, of the other men; and they all answered, Yes,--excepting Jaạfar,
    who was silent. When the lady heard their answer, she said, Verily, O
    our guests, ye have wronged us excessively; for we made a covenant with
    you beforehand, that he who should speak of that which concerned him not
    should hear that which would not please him. Is it not enough that we
    have admitted you into our house, and fed you with our provisions? But
    it is not so much your fault as the fault of her who introduced you to
    us.--She then tucked up her sleeve above her wrist, and struck the floor
    three times, saying, Come ye quickly!--and immediately the door of a
    closet opened, and there came forth from it seven black slaves, each
    having in his hand a drawn sword. The lady said to them, Tie behind them
    the hands of these men of many words, and bind each of them to
    another:--and they did so, and said, O virtuous lady, dost thou permit
    us to strike off their heads? She answered, Give them a short respite,
    until I shall have inquired of them their histories, before ye behead
    them.--By Allah, O my mistress, exclaimed the porter, kill me not for
    the offence of others: for they have all transgressed and committed an
    offence, excepting me. Verily our night had been pleasant if we had been
    preserved from these mendicants, whose presence is enough to convert a
    well-peopled city into a heap of ruins!--He then repeated this
    couplet:--

      How good is it to pardon one able to resist! and how much more so,
        one who is helpless!
      For the sake of the friendship that subsisted between us, destroy
        not one for the crime of another!

    On hearing these words of the porter, the lady laughed after her anger.
    Then approaching the men, she said, Acquaint me with your histories, for
    there remaineth of your lives no more than an hour. Were ye not persons
    of honourable and high condition, or governors,[III_41] I would
    hasten your recompense.--The Khaleefeh said to Jaạfar, Wo to thee, O
    Jaạfar! make known to her who we are; otherwise she will kill us.--It
    were what we deserve, replied he.--Jesting, said the Khaleefeh, is not
    befitting in a time for seriousness: each has its proper occasion.--The
    lady then approached the mendicants, and said to them, Are ye brothers?
    They answered, No, indeed; we are only poor foreigners.[III_42] She
    said then to one of them, Wast thou born blind of one eye?--No, verily,
    he answered; but a wonderful event happened to me when my eye was
    destroyed, and the story of it, if engraved on the understanding, would
    serve as a lesson to him who would be admonished. She asked the second
    and the third also; and they answered her as the first; adding, Each of
    us is from a different country, and our history is wonderful and
    extraordinary. The lady then looked towards them and said, Each of you
    shall relate his story, and the cause of his coming to our abode, and
    then stroke his head,[III_43] and go his way.

    The first who advanced was the porter, who said, O my mistress, I am a
    porter; and this cateress loaded me, and brought me hither, and what
    hath happened to me here in your company ye know. This is my story; and
    peace be on you.--Stroke thy head, then, said she, and go:--but he
    replied, By Allah, I will not go until I shall have heard the story of
    my companions.--The first mendicant then advanced, and related as
    follows:--
