There was once a porter of Baghdad who was a bachelor. One day,
    as he stood in the market, leant upon his basket, there came to
    him a lady, swathed in a wrapper of gold embroidered muslin,
    fringed with gold lace, and wearing embroidered boots and
    floating tresses plaited with silk and gold. She stopped before
    him and raising her kerchief, showed a pair of languishing black
    eyes of perfect beauty, bordered with long drooping lashes. Then
    she turned to the porter and said, in a clear sweet voice, 'Take
    thy basket and follow me.' No sooner had she spoken than he took
    up his basket in haste, saying, 'O day of good luck! O day of
    God's grace!' and followed her till she stopped and knocked at
    the door of a house, when there came out a Nazarene, to whom she
    gave a dinar, and he gave her in return an olive-green bottle,
    full of wine, which she put into the basket, saying to the
    porter, 'Hoist up and follow me.' Said he, 'By Allah, this is
    indeed a happy and fortunate day!' And shouldering the basket,
    followed her till she came to a fruiterer's, where she bought
    Syrian apples and Turkish quinces and Arabian peaches and autumn
    cucumbers and Sultani oranges and citrons, beside jessamine of
    Aleppo and Damascus water-lilies and myrtle and basil and
    henna-blossoms and blood-red anemones and violets and sweet-briar
    and narcissus and camomile and pomegranate flowers, all of which
    she put into the porter's basket, saying, 'Hoist up!' So he
    shouldered the basket and followed her, till she stopped at a
    butcher's shop and said to him, 'Cut me off ten pounds of meat.'
    He gave her the meat, wrapped in a banana leaf, and she put it in
    the basket, saying, 'Hoist up, O porter!' and went on to a
    grocer's, of whom she took pistachio kernels and shelled almonds
    and hazel-nuts and walnuts and sugar cane and parched peas and
    Mecca raisins and all else that pertains to dessert. Thence to a
    pastry-cook's, where she bought a covered dish and put therein
    open-work tarts and honey-fritters and tri-coloured jelly and
    march-pane, flavoured with lemon and melon, and Zeyneb's combs
    and ladies' fingers and Cadi's mouthfuls and widow's bread and
    meat-and-drink[FN#25] and some of every kind of sweetmeat in the
    shop and laid the dish in the basket of the porter, who said to
    her, 'Thou shouldst have told me, that I might have brought a
    mule or a camel to carry all these good things.' She smiled and
    gave him a tap on the nape, saying, 'Make haste and leave
    chattering and God willing, thou shalt have a good wage.' She
    stopped next at the shop of a druggist, where she bought
    rose-water and water-lily water and orange-flower water and
    willow-flower water and six other kinds of sweet waters and a
    casting bottle of rose-water mingled with musk, besides two
    loaves of sugar and frankincense and aloes-wood and ambergris and
    musk and saffron and candles of Alexandrian wax, all of which she
    put into the basket. Then she went on to a greengrocer's, of whom
    she bought pickled safflower and olives, in brine and fresh, and
    tarragon and juncates and Syrian cheese and put them all into the
    basket and said to the porter, 'Take up thy basket and follow
    me.' So he shouldered his load and followed her till she came to
    a tall handsome house, with a spacious court before it and a
    two-leaved door of ebony, inlaid with plates of glittering gold.
    The lady went up to the door and throwing back her kerchief,
    knocked softly, whilst the porter stood behind her, musing upon
    her beauty and grace. After awhile the door opened and both the
    leaves swung back; whereupon he looked to see who opened it, and
    behold, it was a damsel of dazzling beauty and symmetry,
    high-bosomed, with flower-white forehead and rosy cheeks, eyes
    like those of gazelles or wild oxen and eyebrows like the
    crescent of the new moon of Ramazan[FN#26], cheeks like blood-red
    anemones, mouth like Solomon's seal, lips red as coral and teeth
    like clustered pearls or camomile-petals, neck like an antelope's
    and bosom like a fountain, breasts like double pomegranates,
    belly like brocade and navel holding an ounce of benzoin
    ointment, even as says of her the poet:

    Look at her, with her slender shape and radiant beauty! this Is
         she who is at once the sun and moon of palaces!
    Thine eyes shall ne'er see grace combine so featly black and
         white As in her visage and the locks that o'er her forehead
         kiss.
    She in whose cheeks the red flag waves, her beauty testifies Unto
         her name, if that to paint her sweet seductions miss.
    With swimming gait she walks: I laugh for wonder at her hips, But
         weep to see her waist, that all too slight to bear them is.

    When the porter saw her, his mind and heart were taken by storm,
    so that he well-nigh let fall the basket and exclaimed, 'Never in
    all my life saw I a more blessed day than this!' Then said the
    portress to the cateress, 'O my Sister, why tarriest thou? Come
    in from the gate and ease this poor man of his burden.' So the
    cateress entered, followed by the portress and the porter, and
    went on before them to a spacious saloon, elegantly built and
    handsomely decorated with all manner of colours and carvings and
    geometrical figures, with balconies and galleries and cupboards
    and benches and closets with curtains drawn before them. In the
    midst was a great basin of water, from which rose a fountain, and
    at the upper end stood a couch of juniper wood, inlaid with
    precious stones and surmounted by a canopy of red satin, looped
    up with pearls as big as hazel-nuts or bigger. Thereon sat a lady
    of radiant countenance and gentle and demure aspect, moonlike in
    face, with eyes of Babylonian witchcraft and arched eyebrows,
    sugared lips like cornelian and a shape like the letter I. The
    radiance of her countenance would have shamed the rising sun, and
    she resembled one of the chief stars of heaven or a pavilion of
    gold or a high-born Arabian bride on the night of her unveiling,
    even as says of her the poet:

    Her teeth, when she smiles, like pearls in a cluster show, Or
         shredded camomile-petals or flakes of snow:
    Her ringlets seem, as it were, the fallen night, And her beauty
         shames the dawn and its ruddy glow.

    Then she rose and coming with a stately gait to meet her sisters
    in the middle of the saloon, said to them, 'Why stand ye still?
    Relieve this poor porter of his burden.' So the cateress came and
    stood before and the portress behind him and with the help of the
    third damsel, lifted the basket from his head and emptying it,
    laid everything in its place. Then they gave him two dinars,
    saying, 'Go, O porter!' But he stood, looking at the ladies and
    admiring, their beauty and pleasant manners, never had he seen
    goodlier, and wondering greatly at the profusion of wine and meat
    and fruits and flowers and so forth that they had provided and to
    see no man with them, and made no movement to go. So the eldest
    lady said to him, 'What ails thee that thou dost not go away?
    Belike, thou grudgest at thy pay?' And she turned to the cateress
    and said to her, 'Give him another dinar.' 'No, by Allah, O
    lady!' answered the porter. 'I do not indeed grudge at my pay,
    for my right hire is scarce two dirhems; but of a truth my heart
    and soul are taken up with you and how it is that ye are alone
    and have no man with you and no one to divert you, although ye
    know that women's sport is little worth without men, nor is an
    entertainment complete without four at the table, and ye have no
    fourth. What says the poet?

    Dost thou not see that for pleasure four several things combine,
         Instruments four, harp, hautboy and gittern and psaltery?
    And unto these, four perfumes answer and correspond, Violets,
         roses and myrtle and blood-red anemone.
    Nor is our pleasure perfect, unless four things have we, Money
         and wine and gardens and mistress fair and free.

    And ye are three and need a fourth, who should be a man, witty,
    sensible and discreet, one who can keep counsel.' When they heard
    what he said, it amused them and they laughed at him and replied,
    'What have we to do with that, we who are girls and fear to
    entrust our secrets to those who will not keep them? For we have
    read, in such and such a history, what says Ibn eth Thumam:

    Tell not thy secrets: keep them with all thy might. A secret
         revealed is a secret lost outright.
    If thine own bosom cannot thy secrets hold, Why expect more
         reserve from another wight?

    Or, as well says Abou Nuwas on the same subject:

    The fool, that to men doth his secrets avow, Deserves to be
         marked with a brand on the brow.'

    'By your lives,' rejoined the porter, 'I am a man of sense and
    discretion, well read in books and chronicles. I make known what
    is fair and conceal what is foul, and as says the poet:

    None keeps a secret but the man who's trusty and discreet. A
         secret's ever safely placed with honest folk and leal;
    And secrets trusted unto me are in a locked-up house Whose keys
         are lost and on whose door is set the Cadi's seal.

    When the girls heard this, the eldest one said to him, 'Thou
    knowest that we have laid out much money in preparing this
    entertainment: hast thou aught to offer us in return? For we will
    not let thee sit with us and be our boon companion and gaze on
    our bright fair faces, except thou pay down thy share of the
    cost. Dost thou not know the saying:

         Love without money
         Is not worth a penny?'

    'If thou have aught, my friend,' added the portress, 'then art
    thou something: but if thou have nothing, be off without
    anything.' Here the cateress interposed, saying, 'O sisters, let
    him be: for by Allah, he has not failed us to-day: another had
    not been so patient with us. I will pay his share for him.'
    Whereupon the porter, overjoyed, kissed the earth and thanked
    her, saying, 'By Allah, it was thou didst handsel me this day!
    Here are the two dinars I had of you: take them and admit me to
    your company, not as a guest, but as a servant.' 'Sit down,'
    answered they; 'thou art welcome.' But the eldest lady said,
    'By Allah, we will not admit thee to our society but on one
    condition; and it is that thou enquire not of what does not
    concern thee; and if thou meddle, thou shalt be beaten.' Said the
    porter, 'I agree to this, O my lady, on my head and eyes!
    Henceforth I am dumb.' Then arose the cateress and girding her
    middle, laid the table by the fountain and set out the cups and
    flagons, with flowers and sweet herbs and all the requisites for
    drinking. Moreover, she strained the wine and set it on; and they
    sat down, she and her sisters, with the porter, who fancied
    himself in a dream. The cateress took the flagon of wine and
    filled a cup and drank it off. Then she filled again and gave it
    to one of her sisters, who drank and filled another cup and gave
    it to her other sister: then she filled a fourth time and gave it
    to the porter, saying:

    Drink and fare well and health attend thee still. This drink
         indeed's a cure for every ill.

    He took the cup in his hand and bowed and returned thanks,
    reciting the following verses:

    Quaff not the cup except with one who is of trusty stuff, One who
         is true of thought and deed and eke of good descent.
    Wine's like the wind, that, if it breathe on perfume, smells as
         sweet, But, if o'er carrion it pass, imbibes its evil scent.

    And again:

    Drink not of wine except at the hands of a maiden fair, Who, like
         unto thee and it, is joyous and debonair.

    Then he kissed their hands and drank and was merry with wine and
    swayed from side to side and recited the following verses:

    Hither, by Allah, I conjure thee! Goblets that full of the grape
         juice be!
    And brim up, I prithee, a cup for me, For this is the water of
         life, perdie!

    Then the cateress filled the cup and gave it to the portress, who
    took it from her hand and thanked her and drank. Then she filled
    again and gave it to the eldest, who filled another cup and
    handed it to the porter. He gave thanks and drank and recited the
    following verses:

    It is forbidden us to drink of any blood Except it be of that
         which gushes from the vine.
    So pour it out to me, an offering to thine eyes, To ransom from
         thy hands my soul and all that's mine.

    Then he turned to the eldest lady, who was the mistress of the
    house, and said to her, 'O my lady, I am thy slave and thy
    servant and thy bondman!' And repeated the following verses:

    There is a slave of all thy caves now standing at thy gate Who
         ceases not thy bounties all to sing and celebrate.
    May he come in, O lady fair, to gaze upon thy charms? Desire and
         I from thee indeed may never separate.


    And she said to him, 'Drink, and health and prosperity attend
    thee!' So he took the cup and kissed her hand and sang the
    following verses:


    I brought my love old wine and pure, the likeness of her cheeks,
         Whose glowing brightness called to mind a brazier's heart of
         red.
    She touched the wine-cup with her lips, and laughing roguishly,
         "How canst thou proffer me to drink of my own cheeks?" she
         said.
    "Drink!" answered I, "it is my tears; its hue is of my blood; And
         it was heated at a fire that by my sighs was fed."

    And she answered him with the following verse:

    If, O my friend, thou hast indeed wept tears of blood for me, I
         prithee, give them me to drink, upon thine eyes and head!

    Then she took the cup and drank it off to her sisters' health;
    and they continued to drink and make merry, dancing and laughing
    and singing and reciting verses and ballads. The porter fell to
    toying and kissing and biting and handling and groping and
    dallying and taking liberties with them: whilst one put a morsel
    into his mouth and another thumped him, and this one gave him a
    cuff and that pelted him with flowers; and he led the most
    delightful life with them, as if he sat in paradise among the
    houris. They ceased not to drink and carouse thus, till the wine
    sported in their heads and got the better of their senses, when
    the portress, arose, and putting off her clothes, let down her
    hair over her naked body, for a veil. Then she threw herself into
    the basin and sported in the water and swam about and dived like
    a duck and took water in her mouth and spurted it at the porter
    and washed her limbs and the inside of her thighs. Then she came
    up out of the water and throwing herself into the porter's lap,
    pointed to her commodity and said to him, 'O my lord O my friend,
    what is the name of this?' 'Thy kaze,' answered he; but she said,
    'Fie! art thou not ashamed!' And cuffed him on the nape of the
    neck. Quoth he, 'Thy catso.' And she dealt him a second cuff,
    saying, 'Fie! what an ugly word! Art thou not ashamed?' 'Thy
    commodity,' said he; and she, 'Fie! is there no shame in thee?'
    And thumped him and beat him. Then said he, 'Thy coney.'
    Whereupon the eldest fell on him and beat him, saying, 'Thou
    shalt not say that.' And whatever he said, they beat him more and
    more, till his neck ached again; and they made a laughing-stock
    of him amongst them, till he said at last, 'Well, what is its
    name amongst you women?' 'The sweet basil of the dykes,' answered
    they. 'Praised be God for safety!' cried he. 'Good, O sweet basil
    of the dikes!' Then they passed round the cup and presently the
    cateress rose and throwing herself into the porter's lap, pointed
    to her kaze and said to him, 'O light of mine eyes, what is the
    name of this?' 'Thy commodity,' answered he. 'Art thou not
    ashamed?' said she, and dealt him a buffet that made the place
    ring again, repeating, 'Fie! Fie! art thou not ashamed?' Quoth
    he, 'The sweet basil of the dykes.' 'No! No!' answered she, and
    beat him and cuffed him on the nape. Then said he, 'Thy kaze, thy
    tout, thy catso, thy coney.' But they replied, 'No! No!' And he
    said again, 'The sweet basil of the dykes.' Whereupon they
    laughed till they fell backward and cuffed him on the neck,
    saying, 'No; that is not its name.' At last he said, 'O my
    sisters, what is its name?' And they answered, 'What sayest thou
    to the peeled barleycorn?' Then the cateress put on her clothes
    and they sat down again to carouse, whilst the porter lamented
    over his neck and shoulders. The cup passed round among them
    awhile, and presently the eldest and handsomest of the ladies
    rose and put off her clothes; whereupon the porter took his neck
    in his hand and said, 'My neck and shoulders are in the way of
    God!' Then she threw herself into the basin and plunged and
    sported and washed; whilst the porter looked at her, naked, as
    she were a piece of the moon or the full moon when she waxes or
    the dawn at its brightest, and noted her shape and breasts and
    her heavy quivering buttocks, for she was naked as God created
    her. And he said, 'Alack!' Alack!' and repeated the following
    verses:

    If to the newly-budded branch thy figure I compare, I lay upon my
         heart a load of wrong too great to bear;
    For that the branch most lovely is, when clad upon with green,
         But thou, when free of every veil, art then by far most
         fair.

    When she heard this, she came up out of the water and sitting
    down on his knees, pointed to her kaze and said, 'O my little
    lord, what is the name of this?' 'The sweet basil of the dykes,'
    answered he; but she said, 'No! No!' Quoth he, 'The peeled
    barleycorn.' And she said, 'Pshaw!' Then said he, 'Thy kaze.'
    Fie! Fie!' cried she. 'Art thou not ashamed?' And cuffed him on
    the nape of the neck. And whatever name he said, they beat him,
    saying, 'No! No!' till at last he said, 'O my sisters, what is
    its name?' 'The khan[FN#27] of Abou Mensour,' answered they. And
    he said, 'Praised be God for safety! Bravo! Bravo! O khan of Abou
    Mensour!' Then the damsel rose and put on her clothes and they
    returned to their carousing and the cup passed round awhile.
    Presently, the porter rose and putting off his clothes, plunged
    into the pool and swam about and washed under his chin and
    armpits, even as they had done. Then he came out and threw
    himself into the eldest lady's lap and putting his arms into the
    portress's lap and his feet into that of the cateress pointed to
    his codpiece and said, 'O my mistresses, what is the name of
    this?' They laughed till they fell backward and one of them
    answered, 'Thy yard.' 'Art thou not ashamed?' said he. 'A
    forfeit!' and took of each a kiss. Quoth another, 'Thy pintle.'
    But he replied, 'No,' and gave each of them a bite in play. Then
    said they, 'Thy pizzle.' 'No,' answered he, and gave each of them
    a hug; and they kept saying, 'Thy yard, thy pintle, thy pizzle,
    thy codpiece!' whilst he kissed and hugged and fondled them to
    his heart's content, and they laughed till they were well nigh
    dead. At last they said, 'O our brother, and what is its name?'
    'Don't you know?' asked he; and they said, 'No.' Quoth he, 'This
    is the mule Break-all, that browses on the basil of the dykes and
    gobbles up the peeled barleycorn and lies by night in the khan of
    Abou Mensour.' And they laughed till they fell backward. Then
    they fell again to drinking and continued after this fashion till
    the night came upon them, when they said to the porter, 'In the
    name of God, put on thy sandals and be off and let us see the
    breadth of thy shoulders!' Quoth he, 'By Allah, the leaving life
    were easier to me than the leaving you! Let us join the night to
    the day, and to-morrow we will each go our own way.' 'My life on
    you!' said the cateress, 'let him pass the night with us, that we
    may laugh at him, for he is a pleasant rogue; and we may never
    again chance upon the like of him.' So the mistress of the house
    said to the porter, 'Thou shalt pass the night with us on
    condition that thou submit to our authority and that, whatever
    thou seest, thou ask no questions about it nor enquire the reason
    of it.' 'It is well,' answered he; and they said, 'Go and read
    what is written over the door.' So he went to the door and found
    the following words written thereon in letters of gold, 'He who
    speaks of what concerns him not, shall hear what will not please
    him.' And he said, 'Be ye witness against me that I will not
    speak of what concerns me not.' Then rose the cateress and
    prepared food, and they ate: after which they lighted the lamps
    and candles and strewed on the latter ambergris and aloes-wood;
    then changed the service and set on fresh fruits and flowers and
    wine and so forth and sat down again to drink. They ceased not to
    eat and drink and make merry, hobnobbing and laughing and talking
    and frolicking, till there came a knocking at the door: whereupon
    one of them rose and went to the door, without disturbing the
    party, and presently returned, saying, 'Verily, our pleasure is
    to be complete to-night.' 'How so?' asked the others, and she
    replied, 'There are three foreign Calenders[FN#28] at the door,
    with shaven heads and chins and eyebrows and every one blind of
    the right eye, which is a most extraordinary coincidence.
    Apparently they are fresh from a journey and indeed the traces of
    travel are evident on them; and the reason of their knocking at
    the door is this. They are strangers to Baghdad and this is their
    first coming to our city: the night surprised them and they could
    not find a lodging in the city and know no one with whom to take
    shelter: so they said to each other, "Perhaps the owner of this
    house will give us the key of a stable or outhouse and let us
    sleep there." And, O my sisters, each of them is a laughing-stock
    after his own fashion; and if we let them in, they will make us
    sport this night, and on the morrow each shall go his own way.'
    And she ceased not to persuade them, till they said, 'Let them
    come in, on condition that they ask no questions of what does not
    concern them, on pain of hearing what will not please them.' So
    she rejoiced and going to the door, returned with the three
    Calenders, who saluted and bowed low and held back; but the
    ladies rose to them and welcomed them and gave them joy of their
    safety and made them sit down. The Calenders looked about them
    and seeing a pleasant place and a table elegantly spread with
    flowers and fruits and green herbs and dessert and wine, with
    candles burning and perfumes smoking, and the three maidens, with
    their faces unveiled, said with one voice ''Fore Allah, it is
    good!' Then they turned to the porter and saw that he was tipsy
    and jaded with drinking and dalliance. So they took him for one
    of themselves and said, 'He is a Calender like ourselves, either
    an Arab or a foreigner.' When the porter heard this, he rose and
    fixing his eyes on them, said, 'Sit still and do not meddle. Have
    you not read what is written on the door? It befits not folk,
    like yourselves, who come to us as mendicants, to loose your
    tongues on us.' 'We ask pardon of God, O fakir!' answered they.
    'Our heads are before thee.' The ladies laughed and making peace
    between them, set food before the Calenders. When they had eaten,
    they all sat down again to carouse, the portress serving the new
    comers, and the cup passed round awhile, till the porter said to
    the Calenders, 'O brothers, have ye no story or rare trait to
    divert us withal?' The Calenders, being warm with wine, called
    for musical instruments; so the portress brought them a
    tambourine and a lute and a Persian harp; and each Calender took
    one and tuned it and played and sang; and the girls joined in
    lustily and made a great noise. Whilst they were thus engaged,
    some one knocked at the gate and the portress rose and went to
    see who it was. Now the cause of this knocking was that, that
    very night, the Khalif Haroun er Reshid had gone down into the
    City, as was his wont, every now and then, to walk about for his
    diversion and hear what news was stirring, attended by his Vizier
    Jaafer and Mesrour his headsman, all three, as usual, disguised
    as merchants. Their way brought them to the house of the three
    ladies, where they heard the noise of musical instruments and of
    singing and merriment, and the Khalif said to Jaafer, 'I have a
    mind to enter this house and listen to this music and see the
    singers.' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered Jaafer, 'these
    people are certainly drunk, and I fear lest some mischief betide
    us at their hands.' 'It matters not,' rejoined the Khalif; 'I
    must and will go in and I desire that thou contrive some pretext
    to that end.' 'I hear and obey,' replied the Vizier and going up
    to the gate, knocked, whereupon the portress came down and
    opened. Jaafer came forward and kissing the earth before her,
    said, 'O lady, we are merchants from Tiberias: we reached Baghdad
    ten days ago and sold our merchandise and took up our lodging at
    the khan of the merchants. Now we were bidden to-night to an
    entertainment at the house of a certain merchant, who set food
    before us and we ate and caroused with him awhile, till he gave
    us leave to depart and we went out, intending for our lodging;
    but being strangers in Baghdad, we lost ourselves and could not
    find our way back to our khan: so we hope, of your courtesy, that
    you will admit us to pass the night with you, and God will
    requite you.' The portress looked at them and saw that they were
    dressed like merchants and appeared respectable; so she returned
    to her sisters and repeated to them Jaafer's story, and they took
    compassion on the supposed strangers and bade her admit them. So
    she resumed and opened the gate to them, and they said, 'Have we
    thy leave to enter?' 'Enter,' answered she; whereupon the Khalif
    and Jaafer and Mesrour entered; and when the girls saw them, they
    rose and welcomed them and made them sit down and served them,
    saying, 'Ye are welcome as our guests, but on one condition.'
    'What is that?' asked they; and the mistress of the house
    answered, 'It is that you be eyes without tongues and that,
    whatever you see, you enquire not thereof nor speak of that which
    concerns you not, lest you hear what will not please you.'
    'Good,' answered they: 'we are no meddlers.' Then they sat down
    to carouse; whilst the Khalif looked at the three Calenders and
    marvelled for that they were all blind of the right eye, and
    gazed upon the ladies and was amazed at their beauty and
    goodliness. They fell to drinking and talking and said to the
    Khalif, 'Drink.' But he answered, 'Excuse me, for I am vowed to
    the pilgrimage.'[FN#29] Whereupon the portress rose and spreading
    a gold-embroidered cloth before him, set thereon a china bowl,
    into which she poured willow-flower water, with a spoonful of
    snow and some pounded sugar-candy. The Khalif thanked her and
    said to himself, 'By Allah, I will reward her to-morrow for her
    kind office!' Then they addressed themselves to carousel, till
    the wine began to work upon them, when the eldest lady rose and
    making an obeisance to her guests, took the cateress by the hand
    and said, 'Come, sisters, let us do our duty.' And they answered,
    'It is well.' So the portress rose and cleared the middle of the
    saloon, after she had removed the table service and thrown away
    the remains of the banquet. Then she renewed the perfumes in the
    censers and made the Calenders sit down on a sofa by the dais and
    the Khalif and his companions on a sofa at the other end; after
    which she called to the porter, saying, 'How dull and slothful
    thou art! Come and help us: thou art no stranger, but one of the
    household!' So he rose and girt his middle and said, 'What would
    you have me do?' And she answered, 'Stay where thou art.' Then
    the cateress rose and setting a chair in the middle of the room,
    went to a closet, which she opened, saying to the porter, 'Come
    and help me.' So he went to her and she brought out two black
    bitches, with chains round their necks, and gave them to him,
    saying, 'Take them.' So he took them and carried them to the
    middle of the saloon; whereupon the mistress of the house tucked
    up her sleeves and taking a whip, said to the porter, 'Bring me
    one of the bitches.' So he brought it to her by the chain; and
    the bitch wept and shook its head at the damsel, who brought the
    whip down on it, whilst the porter held it by the chain. The
    bitch howled and whined, but the lady ceased not to beat it till
    her arm was tired; when she threw away the whip and pressing the
    bitch to her bosom, kissed it on the head and wiped away its
    tears. Then she said to the porter, 'Take it back and bring the
    other.' He did as she bade him, and she did with the second bitch
    as she had done with the first. The Khalif's mind was troubled at
    her doings and his breast contracted and he could not restrain
    his impatience to know the meaning of all this. So he winked to
    Jaafer to ask, but the latter turned and signed to him as who
    should say, 'Be silent: this is no time for impertinent
    curiosity.' Then said the portress to the mistress of the house,
    'O my lady, rise and go up to thy place, that I in turn may do my
    part.' 'It is well,' answered she and went up and sat down on the
    couch of juniper-wood, at the upper end of the dais; whilst the
    portress sat down on a chair and said to the cateress, 'Do what
    thou hast to do.' So the latter rose and going to a closet,
    brought out a bag of yellow satin, with cords of green silk and
    tassels of gold, and came and sat down before the portress. Then
    she opened the bag and took out a lute, which she tuned, and sang
    the following verses, accompanying herself on the lute:

    Thou art my wish, thou art my end; And in thy presence, O my
         friend,
    There is for me abiding joy: Thine absence sets my heart a-flame
    For thee distraught, with thee possest, Thou reignest ever in my
         breast,
    Nor in the love I bear to thee Is there for me reproach or shame.
    Life's veil for me was torn apart, When Love gat hold upon my
         heart
    For Love still rends the veils in twain And brings dishonour on
         fair fame.
    The cloak of sickness I did on; And straight my fault appeared
         and shone.
    Since that my heart made choice of thee And love and longing on
         me came,
    My eyes are ever wet with tears, And all my secret thought
         appears,
    When with my tears' tumultuous flow Exhales the secret of thy
         name.
    Heal thou my pains, for thou to me Art both disease and remedy.
    Yet him, whose cure is in thy hand, Affliction shall for ever
         claim,
    Thy glances set my heart on fire, Slay me with swords of my
         desire:
    How many, truly, of the best Have fallen beneath Love's sword of
         flame?
    Yet may I not from passion cease Nor in forgetting seek release;
    For love's my comfort, pride and law, Public and private, aye the
         same.
    Blest eyes that have of thee their fill And look upon thee at
         their will!
    Ay, of my own unforced intent, The slave of passion I became.

    When the portress heard this foursome song, she cried out, 'Alas!
    Alas! Alas!' and tore her clothes and fell down in a swoon; and
    the Khalif saw on her body the marks of beating with rods and
    whips, and wondered greatly. Then the cateress rose and sprinkled
    water upon her and brought her a fresh dress and put it on her.
    When the company saw this, their minds were troubled, for they
    understood not the reason of these things. And the Khalif said to
    Jaafer, 'Didst thou not see the marks of beating with rods upon
    the girl's body! I cannot keep silence nor be at rest, except I
    come at the truth of all this and know the story of this damsel
    and the two bitches.' 'O my lord,' answered Jaafer, 'they made it
    a condition with us that we should not speak of what concerns us
    not, under pain of hearing what should not please us.' Then said
    the portress 'By Allah! O my sister, come and complete thy
    service to me.' 'With all my heart!' answered the cateress and
    took the lute and leant it against her breasts. Then she swept
    the strings with her finger-tips and sang the following verses:

    If we complain of absence, what alas! shall we say? Or if longing
         assail us, where shall we take our way?
    If, to interpret for us, we trust to a messenger, How can a
         message rightly a lover's plaint convey?
    Or if we put on patience, short is a lover's life, After his
         heart's beloved is torn from him away.
    Nothing, alas! is left me but sorrow and despair And tears that
         adown my cheeks without cessation stray.
    Thou that art ever absent from my desireful sight, Thou that art
         yet a dweller within my heart alway,
    Hast thou kept troth, I wonder, with one who loves thee dear,
         Whose faith, whilst time endureth, never shall know decay?
    Or hast thou e'en forgotten her who for love of thee, In tears
         and sickness and passion, hath wasted many a day?
    Alas! though Love unite us again in one embrace, Reproach for thy
         past rigour with me full long shall stay.

    When the portress heard this second song, she gave a loud scream
    and exclaimed, 'By Allah! it is good!' and putting her hand to
    her clothes, tore them as before and fell down in a swoon.
    Whereupon the cateress rose and brought her another dress, after
    she had sprinkled water on her. Then she sat up again and said to
    the cateress 'To it again and help me to do the rest of my duty;
    for there remains but one more song.' So the cateress took the
    lute and sang the following verses:

    How long, ah me! shall this rigour last and this inhumanity? Are
         not the tears that I have shed enough to soften thee?
    If thou, of thy relentless will, estrangement do prolong,
         Intending my despite, at last, I pray, contented be!
    If treacherous fortune were but just to lovers and their woe,
         They would not watch the weary night in sleepless agony.
    Have ruth on me, for thy disdain is heavy on my heart; Is it not
         time that thou relent at last, my king, to me?
    To whom but thee that slayest me should I reveal my pain? What
         grief is theirs who love and prove the loved one's perfidy!
    Love and affliction hour by hour redouble in my breast: The days
         of exile are prolonged; no end to them I see.
    Muslims, avenge a slave of love, the host of wakefulness, Whose
         patience hath been trampled out by passion's tyranny!
    Can it be lawful, O my wish, that thou another bless With thine
         embraces, whilst I die, in spite of Love's decree?
    Yet in thy presence, by my side, what peace should I enjoy, Since
         he I love doth ever strive to heap despite on me?

    When the portress heard this third song, she screamed out and
    putting forth her hand, tore her clothes even to the skirt and
    fell down in a swoon for the third time, and there appeared once
    more on her body the marks of beat ing with rods. Then said the
    three Calenders, 'Would God we had never entered this house, but
    had slept on the rubbish-heaps! for verily our entertainment hath
    been troubled by things that rend the heart.' The Khalif turned
    to them and said, 'How so?' And they answered, 'Indeed, our minds
    are troubled about this matter.' Quoth he, 'Are you not then of
    the household?' 'No,' replied they; 'nor did we ever see the
    place till now.' Said the Khalif, 'There is the man by you: he
    will surely know the meaning of all this.' And he winked at the
    porter. So they questioned the latter and he replied, 'By the
    Almighty, we are all in one boat! I was brought up at Baghdad,
    but never in my life did I enter this house till to-day, and the
    manner of my coming in company with them was curious.' 'By
    Allah,' said they, 'we thought thee one of them, and now we see
    thou art but as one of ourselves.' Then said the Khalif, 'We are
    here seven men, and they are but three women: so let us question
    them of their case, and if they do not answer willingly, they
    shall do so by force.' They all agreed to this, except Jaafer,
    who said, 'This is not well-advised: let them be, for we are
    their guests, and as ye know, they imposed on us a condition, to
    which we all agreed. Wherefore it is better that we keep silence
    concerning this affair, for but a little remains of the night,
    and each go about his business.' And he winked to the Khalif and
    whispered to him, 'There is but a little longer to wait, and
    to-morrow I will bring them before thee and thou canst then
    question them of their story.' But the Khalif lifted his head
    and cried out angrily, 'I have not patience to wait till then:
    let the Calenders ask them.' And Jaafer said, 'This is not
    well-advised.' Then they consulted together, and there was much
    talk and dispute between them, who should put the question,
    before they fixed upon the porter. The noise drew the notice of
    the lady of the house, who said to them, 'O guests, what is the
    matter and what are you talking about?' Then the porter came
    forward and said to her, 'O lady, the company desire that thou
    acquaint them with the history of the two bitches and why thou
    didst beat them and after fellest to kissing and weeping over
    them and also concerning thy sister and why she has been beaten
    with rods, like a man. This is what they charge me to ask thee,
    and peace be on thee.' When she heard this, she turned to the
    others and said to them 'Is this true that he says of you?' And
    they all replied 'Yes;' except Jaafer, who held his peace. Then
    said she, 'By Allah! O guests, ye have done us a grievous wrong,
    for we made it a previous condition with you that whoso spoke of
    what concerned him not, should hear what should not please him.
    Is it not enough that we have taken you into our house and fed
    you with our victual! But the fault is not so much yours as that
    of her who brought you in to us.' Then she tucked up her sleeves
    and smote three times on the floor, saying, 'Come quickly!'
    Whereupon the door of a closet opened and out came seven black
    slaves, with drawn swords in their hands, to whom said the lady,
    'Bind these babblers' hands behind them and tie them one with
    another.' The slaves did as she bade, and said, 'O noble lady, is
    it thy will that we strike off their heads?' 'Hold your hands
    awhile,' answered she, 'till I question them of their condition,
    before ye strike off their heads.' 'By Allah, O my lady,'
    exclaimed the porter 'do not slay me for another's fault, for all
    have erred and offended save myself. And by Allah, our night
    would have been a pleasant one, had we not been afflicted with
    these Calenders, whose presence is enough to lay a flourishing
    city in ruins.' And he repeated the following verses:

    How fair a thing is mercy to the great! And how much more to
         those of low estate!
    By all the love that has between us been, Doom not the guiltless
         to the guilty's fate!

    When the lady heard this, she laughed, in spite of her anger, and
    coming up to the guests, said to them, 'Tell me who you are, for
    ye have but a little while to live, and were you not men of rank
    and consideration, you had never dared to act thus.' Then the
    Khalif said to Jaafer, 'Out on thee! Tell her who we are, or we
    shall be slain in a mistake, and speak her fair, ere an
    abomination befall us.' 'It were only a part of thy deserts,'
    replied Jaafer. Whereupon the Khalif cried out at him in anger
    and said, 'There is a time to jest and a time to be serious.'
    Then the lady said to the Calenders, 'Are ye brothers?' 'Not so,'
    answered they; 'we are only poor men and strangers.' And she said
    to one of them, 'Wast thou born blind of one eye?' 'No, by
    Allah!' replied he; 'but there hangs a rare story by the loss of
    my eye, a story which, were it graven with needles on the corners
    of the eye, would serve as a lesson to those that can profit by
    example.' She questioned the two other Calenders, and they made a
    like reply, saying, 'By Allah! O our mistress, each one of us
    comes from a different country and is the son of a king and a
    sovereign prince ruling over lands and subjects.' Then she turned
    to the others and said to them, 'Let each of you come forward in
    turn and tell us his history and the manner of his coming hither
    and after go about his business; but whoso refuses, I will cut
    off his head.' The first to come forward was the porter, who
    said, 'O my lady, I am a porter. This lady, the cateress, hired
    me and took me first to the vintner's, then to the butcher's,
    from the butcher's to the fruiterer's, from the fruiterer's to
    the grocer's, from the grocer's to the greengrocer's, from the
    greengrocer's to the confectioner's and the druggist's, and
    thence to this place, where there happened to me with you what
    happened. This is my story; and peace be on thee!' At this the
    lady laughed and said to him, 'Begone about thy business.' But he
    said, 'By Allah, I will not budge 'till I hear the others'
    stories.' Then came forward the first Calender and said, 'Know, O
    lady, that




                      The First Calender's Story.



    My father was a king, and he had a brother, who was also a king
    over another city. The latter had a son and a daughter, and it
    chanced that I and the son of my uncle were both born on the same
    day. In due time we grew up to man's estate and there was a great
    affection between us. Now it was my wont every now and then to
    visit my uncle and abide with him several months at a time.
    One day, I went to visit him as usual and found him absent
    a-hunting; but my cousin received me with the utmost courtesy and
    slaughtered sheep and strained wine for me and we sat down to
    drink. When the wine had got the mastery of us, my cousin said to
    me, "O son of my uncle I have a great service to ask of thee, and
    I beg of thee not to baulk me in what I mean to do." "With all my
    heart," answered I; and he made me swear by the most solemn oaths
    to do his will. Then he went away and returning in a little, with
    a lady veiled and perfumed and very richly clad, said to me,
    "Take this lady and go before me to the burial-ground and enter
    such and such a sepulchre," and he described it to me and I knew
    it, "and wait till I come." I could not gainsay him, by reason of
    the oath I had sworn to him; so I took the lady and carried her
    to the cemetery, and entering the tomb sat down to await my
    cousin, who soon rejoined us, carrying a vessel of water, a bag
    containing plaster and an adze. He went up to the tomb in the
    midst of the sepulchre and loosening its stones with the adze,
    laid them on one side after which he fell to digging with the
    adze in the earth till he uncovered a trap of iron, as big as a
    small door, and raised it, when there appeared beneath it a
    winding stair. Then he turned to the lady and said to her, "Up
    and make thy choice." So she descended the stair and was lost to
    sight; and he said to me, "O my cousin, when I have descended,
    complete thy kindness to me by replacing the trap-door and
    throwing back the earth on it: then mix the plaster in the bag
    with the water in this vessel and build up the tomb again with
    the stones and plaster it over as before, lest any see it and
    say, 'This tomb has been newly opened, albeit it is an old one;'
    for I have been at work here a whole year, unknown to any save
    God. This then is the service I had to ask of thee, and may God
    never bereave thy friends of thee, O my cousin!" Then he
    descended the stair; and when he was out of sight, I replaced the
    trap-door and did as he had bidden me, till the tomb was restored
    to its original condition, and I the while in a state of
    intoxication; after which I returned to the palace, and found my
    uncle still absent. Next morning I called to mind what had
    happened and repented of having obeyed my cousin, when repentance
    was of no avail, but thought that it must have been a dream. So I
    fell to enquiring after my cousin; but none could give me any
    news of him; and I went out to the burial-ground and sought for
    the tomb where I had left him, but could not find it, and ceased
    not to go from sepulchre to sepulchre and from tomb to tomb,
    without success, till nightfall. Then I returned to the palace
    and could neither eat nor drink, for my heart was troubled about
    my cousin, seeing I knew not what was come of him; and I was
    extremely chagrined and slept not that night, but lay awake for
    anxiety till morning. As soon as it was day, I repaired again to
    the cemetery, pondering what my cousin had done and repenting me
    of having hearkened to him, and vent round among all the tombs,
    but could not find the one I sought. Thus I did for the space of
    seven days, but with no better success, and my trouble and
    anxiety increased till I was well-nigh mad and could find nothing
    for it but to return to my father. So I set out and journeyed
    till I reached his capital; but as I entered the gate of the
    city, a number of men sprang out on me and tied my hands behind
    me. At this I was beyond measure amazed, seeing that I was the
    son of the Sultan and that they were his servants and my own; and
    great fear fell on me, and I said to myself, "I wonder what has
    befallen my father!" Then I questioned my captors; but they
    returned me no answer. However, after awhile, one of them, who
    had been my servant, said to me, "Fortune has played thy father
    false; and the troops deserted him. So the Vizier slew him and
    seized on his throne; and we laid wait for thee by his command."
    Then they took me and carried me before the Vizier, well-nigh
    distraught for this news of my father. Now between me and this
    Vizier was an old feud, the cause of which was as follows. I was
    fond of shooting with a pellet-bow, and one day, as I was
    standing on the terrace of my palace, a bird lighted on the
    terrace of the Vizier's house, where the latter chanced to be
    standing at the time. I let fly at the bird, but, as fate and
    destiny would have it, the pellet swerved and striking the Vizier
    on the eye, put it out. As says the poet:

    Our footsteps follow on in their predestined way, Nor from the
         ordered track can any mortal stray:
    And he whom Fate appoints in any land to die, No other place on
         earth shall see his dying day.


    The Vizier dared say nothing, at the time, because I was the
    Sultan's son of the city, but thenceforward he nourished a deadly
    hatred against me. So when they brought me bound before him, he
    commanded my head to be smitten off; and I said, "For what crime
    wilt thou put me to death?" "What crime could be greater than
    this?" answered he, and pointed to his ruined eye. Quoth I, "That
    I did by misadventure." And he replied, "If thou didst it by
    misadventure, I will do the like with intent." Then said he,
    "Bring him to me." So they brought me up to him, and he put his
    finger into my right eye and pulled it out; and thenceforward I
    became one-eyed as ye see me. Then he caused me to be bound hand
    and foot and put in a chest and said to the headsman, "Take this
    fellow and carry him forth of the city and slay him and leave him
    for the beasts and birds to eat." So the headsman carried me
    without the city to the midst of the desert, where he took me out
    of the chest, bound hand and foot as I was, and would have
    bandaged my eyes, that he might slay me. But I wept sore till I
    made him weep, and looking at him, repeated the following verses:

    I counted on you as a coat of dart-proof mail toward The foeman's
         arrows from my breast. Alas! ye are his sword!
    I hoped in you to succour me in every evil chance, Although my
         right hand to my left no more should help afford.
    Yet stand aloof nor cast your lot with those who do me hate, And
         let my foemen shoot their shafts against your whilom lord!
    If you refuse to succour me against my enemies, At least be
         neutral, nor to me nor them your aid accord.

    And these also:

    How many of my friends, methought, were coats of mail! And so
         they were, indeed, but on my foeman's part.
    Unerring shafts and true I deemed them; and they were Unerring
         shafts, indeed, alas, but in my heart!

    When the headsman heard this (now he had been my father's
    headsman and I had done him kindness) he said, "O my lord what
    can I do, being but a slave commanded?" Then he said, "Fly for
    thy life and never return to this country, or thou art lost and I
    with thee." As says one of the poets:

    Escape with thy life, if oppression betide thee, And let the
         house tell of its builder's fate!
    Country for country thou'lt find, if thou seek it; Life for life
         never, early or late.
    It is strange men should dwell in the house of abjection, When
         the plain of God's world is so wide and so great!

    I kissed his hands, hardly crediting my escape; and recked little
    of the loss of my eye, in consideration of my deliverance from
    death. Then I repaired to my uncle's capital and going in to him,
    told him what had befallen my father and myself; whereat he wept
    sore and said, "Verily, thou addest affliction to my affliction
    and sorrow to my sorrow; for thy cousin has been missing these
    many days; I know not what is become of him, and none can give me
    any news of him." Then he wept till he swooned away, and my heart
    was sore for him. When he revived, he would have medicined my
    eye, but found there was but the socket left and said, "O my son,
    it is well that it was thine eye and not thy life!" I could not
    keep silence about my cousin; so I told him all that had passed,
    and he rejoiced greatly at hearing news of his son and said,
    "Come, show me the tomb." "By Allah, O my uncle," answered I, "I
    know it not, for I went after many times to seek for it, but
    could not find it." However, we went out to the burial-ground and
    looked right and left, till at last I discovered the tomb. At
    this we both rejoiced greatly and entering, removed the earth,
    raised the trapdoor and descended fifty steps, till we came to
    the foot of the stair, where we were met by a great smoke that
    blinded our eyes: and my uncle pronounced the words, which whoso
    says shall never be confounded, that is to say, "There is no
    power and no virtue but in God the Most High, the Supreme!" Then
    we went on and found ourselves in a saloon, raised upon columns,
    drawing air and light from openings communicating with the
    surface of the ground and having a cistern in its midst. The
    place was full of crates and sacks of flour and grain and other
    victual; and at the upper end stood a couch with a canopy over
    it. My uncle went up to the bed and drawing the curtains, found
    his son and the lady in each other's arms; but they were become
    black coal, as they had been cast into a well of fire. When he
    saw this, he spat in his son's face and taking off his shoe,
    smote him with it, exclaiming, "Swine that thou art, thou hast
    thy deserts! This is thy punishment in this world, but there
    awaits thee a far sorer and more terrible punishment in the world
    to come!" His behaviour amazed me, and I mourned for my cousin,
    for that he was become a black coal, and said to the king, "O my
    uncle, is not that which hath befallen him enough, but thou must
    beat him with thy shoe?" "O son of my brother," answered my
    uncle, "this my son was from his earliest youth madly enamoured
    of his sister, and I forbade him from her, saying in myself,
    'They are but children.' But, when they grew up, sin befell
    between them, notwithstanding that his attendants warned him to
    abstain from so foul a thing, which none had done before nor
    would do after him, lest the news of it should be carried abroad
    by the caravans and he become dishonoured and unvalued among
    kings to the end of time. I heard of this and believed it not,
    but took him and upbraided him severely, saying, 'Have a care
    lest this thing happen to thee; for I will surely curse thee and
    put thee to death.' Then I shut her up and kept them apart, but
    this accursed girl loved him passionately, and Satan got the
    upper hand of them and made their deeds to seem good in their
    eyes. So when my son saw that I had separated them, he made this
    place under ground and transported victual hither, as thou seest,
    and taking advantage of my absence a-hunting, came here with his
    sister, thinking to enjoy her a long while. But the wrath of God
    descended on them and consumed them; and there awaits them in the
    world to come a still sorer and more terrible punishment." Then
    he wept and I with him, and he looked at me and said, "Henceforth
    thou art my son in his stead." Then I bethought me awhile of the
    world and its chances and how the Vizier had slain my father and
    usurped his throne and put out my eye and of the strange events
    that had befallen my cousin and wept again, and my uncle wept
    with me. Presently we ascended, and replacing the trap-door,
    restored the tomb to its former condition. Then we resumed to the
    palace, but hardly had we sat down when we heard a noise of drums
    and trumpets and cymbals and galloping of cavalry and clamour of
    men and clash of arms and clank of bridles and neighing of
    horses, and the world was filled with clouds of dust raised by
    the horses' hoofs. At this we were amazed and knew not what could
    be the matter so we enquired and were told that the Vizier, who
    had usurped my father's throne, had levied troops and hired the
    wild Arabs and was come with an army like the sands of the sea,
    none could tell their number nor could any avail against them.
    They assaulted the city unawares, and the people, being unable to
    withstand them, surrendered the place to them. My uncle was slain
    and I took refuge in the suburbs, knowing that, if I fell into
    the Vizier's hands, he would put me to death. Wherefore trouble
    was sore upon me and I bethought me of all that had befallen me
    and my father and uncle and knew not what to do, for if I showed
    myself, the people of the city and my father's troops would know
    me and hasten to win the usurpers favour by putting me to death;
    and I could find no means of escape but by shaving my face. So I
    shaved off my beard and eyebrows and donning a Calender's habit,
    left the town, without being known of any, and made for this
    city, in the hope that perhaps some one would bring me to the
    presence of the Commander of the Faithful and Vicar of the Lord
    of the Two Worlds, that I might relate to him my story and lay my
    case before him. I arrived here today and was standing, perplexed
    where I should go, when I saw this second Calender; so I saluted
    him, saying "I am a stranger," and he replied, "And I also am a
    stranger." Presently up came our comrade, this other Calender,
    and saluted us, saying, "I am a stranger." "We also are
    strangers," answered we; and we walked on together, till darkness
    overtook us, and destiny led us to your house. This, then, is my
    history and the manner of the loss of my right eye and the
    shaving of my beard and eyebrows.' They all marvelled at his
    story, and the Khalif said to Jaafer, 'By Allah, I never heard or
    saw the like of what happened to this Calender.' Then the
    mistress of the house said to the Calender, 'Begone about thy
    business.' But he answered, 'I will not budge till I hear the
    others' stories.' Then came forth the second Calender and kissing
    the earth, said, 'O my lady, I was not born blind of one eye, and
    my story is a marvellous one; were it graven with needles on the
    corners of the eye, it would serve as a warning to those that can
    profit by example.




                      The Second Calender's Story.



    I am a king, son of a king. My father taught me to read and
    write, and I got the Koran by heart, according to the seven
    readings, and read all manner of books under the guidance of
    learned professors; I studied the science of the stars and the
    sayings of poets and applied myself to all branches of knowledge,
    till I surpassed all the folk of my time. In particular, my skill
    in handwriting excelled that of all the scribes, and my fame was
    noised abroad in all countries and at the courts of all the
    kings. Amongst others, the King of Ind heard of me and sent to my
    father to seek me, with gifts and presents such as befit kings.
    So my father fitted out six ships for me, and we put to sea and
    sailed for a whole month, till we reached the land. Then we
    brought out the horses that were with us in the ships, together
    with ten camels laden with presents for the King of Ind. and set
    out inland, but had not gone far, before there arose a great
    dust, that grew till it covered the whole country. After awhile
    it lifted and discovered fifty steel-clad horsemen, as they were
    fierce lions, whom we soon found to be Arab highwaymen. When they
    saw that we were but a small company and had with us ten laden
    camels, they drove at us with levelled spears. We signed to them
    with our fingers to do us no hindrance, for that we were
    ambassadors to the mighty King of Ind; but they replied (in the
    same manner) that they were not in his dominions nor under his
    rule. Then they set on us and slew some of my attendants and put
    the rest to flight; and I also fled, after I had gotten a sore
    wound whilst the Arabs were taken up with the baggage. I knew not
    whither to turn, being reduced from high to low estate; so I fled
    forth at a venture till I came to the top of a mountain, where I
    took shelter for the night in a cavern. On the morrow, I
    continued my journey and fared on thus for a whole month, till I
    reached a safe and pleasant city. The winter had passed away from
    it with its cold and the spring was come with its roses; its
    flowers were blowing and its streams welling and its birds
    warbling. As says the poet, describing the city in question:

    A town, wherein who dwells is free from all affray; Security and
         peace are masters there alway.
    Like Paradise itself, it seemeth, for its folk, With all its
         beauties rare decked out in bright array.

    I was both glad and sorry to reach the city, glad for that I was
    weary with my journey and pale for weakness and anxiety, and
    grieved to enter it in such sorry case. However, I went in,
    knowing not whither to betake me, and fared on till I came to a
    tailor sitting in his shop. I saluted him, and he returned my
    salute and bade me a kindly welcome, and seeing me to be a
    stranger and noting marks of gentle breeding on me, enquired how
    I came thither. I told him all that had befallen me; and he was
    concerned for me and said, "O my son, do not discover thyself to
    any, for the King of this city is the chief of thy father's foes
    and hath a mortal feud against him." Then he set meat and drink
    before me, and I ate and he with me, and we talked together till
    nightfall, when he lodged me in a chamber beside his own, and
    brought me a bed and coverlet. I abode with him three days, at
    the end of which time he said to me, "Dost thou know any craft by
    which thou mayst earn thy living?" I replied, "I am a doctor of
    the law and a man of learning, a scribe, a grammarian, a poet, a
    mathematician and a skilled penman." Quoth he, "Thy trade is not
    in demand in this country nor are there in this city any who
    understand science or writing or aught but money-getting." "By
    Allah," said I, "I know nought but what I have told thee!" And he
    said, "Gird thy middle and take axe and cord and go and cut
    firewood in the desert for thy living, till God send thee relief,
    and tell none who thou art, or they will kill thee." Then he
    bought me an axe and a cord and gave me in charge to certain
    woodcutters; with whom I went out into the desert and cut wood
    all day and carried home a load on my head. I sold it for half a
    dinar, with part of which I bought victual and laid up the rest.
    On this wise I lived a whole year, at the end of which time I
    went out one day into the desert, according to my wont, and
    straying from my companions, happened on a tract full of trees
    and running streams, in which there was abundance of firewood; so
    I entered and coming on the gnarled stump of a great tree, dug
    round it with my axe and cleared the earth away from it.
    Presently, the axe struck upon a ring of brass; so I cleared away
    the earth, till I uncovered a wooden trap-door, which I raised
    and there appeared beneath it a stair I descended the stair, till
    I came to a door, which I opened and found myself in a vaulted
    hall of goodly structure, wherein was a damsel like a pearl of
    great price, whose aspect banished pain and care and anxiety from
    the heart and whose speech healed the troubled soul and
    captivated the wise and the intelligent. She was slender of shape
    and swelling-breasted, delicate-cheeked and bright of colour and
    fair of form; and indeed her face shone like the sun through the
    night of her tresses, and her teeth glittered above the snows of
    her bosom. As says the poet of her:

    Slender of waist, with streaming hair the hue of night, is she,
         With hips like hills of sand and shape straight as the
         balsam-tree.

    And as says another:

    There are four things that ne'er unite, except it be To shed my
         heart's best blood and take my soul by storm.
    And these are night-black locks and brow as bright as day, Cheeks
         ruddy as the rose and straight and slender form.

    When I looked on her, I prostrated myself before her Maker, for
    the grace and beauty He had created in her and she looked at me
    and said, "Art thou a man or a genie?" "I am a man," answered I;
    and she said, "And who brought thee to this place, where I have
    dwelt five-and-twenty years without seeing man?" Quoth I (and
    indeed her speech was sweet to me), "O my lady, my good star
    brought me hither for the dispelling of my grief and anxiety."
    And I told her all that had befallen me from first to last. My
    case was grievous to her and she wept: then she said, "I will
    tell thee my story in turn. I am the daughter of a King of
    Farther India, by name Efitamous, Lord of the Ebony Islands, who
    married me to my cousin, but on my wedding-night an Afrit called
    Jerjis ben Rejmous, the mother's sister's son of Iblis, carried
    me off and flying away with me, set me down in this place whither
    he transported all that I needed of clothes and ornaments and
    furniture and meat and drink and so forth. Once in every ten days
    he comes to me and lies the night here, then goes his way; for he
    took me without the consent of his family: and he has agreed with
    me that, in case I should ever have occasion for him in the
    interval between his visits, whether by night or by day, I have
    only to touch these two lines engraved upon the alcove, and he
    will be with me before I take away my hand. It is now four days
    since he was here, and there remain six before he comes again.
    Wilt thou therefore spend five days with me and depart the day
    before his coming?" "I will well," answered I. "O rare! if it be
    not all a dream." At this she rejoiced and taking me by the hand,
    led me through a vaulted doorway into a small but elegant
    bath-room, where we put off our clothes and she washed me. Then
    she clad me in a new suit and seated me by her side on a high
    divan and gave me to drink of sherbet of sugar flavoured with
    musk. Then she brought food, and we ate and conversed. After
    awhile, she said to me, "Lie down and rest, for thou art weary."
    So I lay down and slept and forgot all that had befallen me. When
    I awoke, I found her rubbing my feet:[FN#30] so I thanked her and
    blessed her, and we sat talking awhile. Quoth she, "By Allah, I
    was sad at heart, for that I have dwelt alone under ground these
    five-and-twenty years, without any to talk withal. So praised be
    God who hath sent thee to me!" Then she said, "O youth, art thou
    for wine?" And I answered, "As thou wilt." Whereupon she went to
    the cupboard and took out a sealed flask of old wine and decked
    the table with flowers and green herbs. Then she recited the
    following verses:

    Had we thy coming known, we would for sacrifice Have poured thee
         forth heart's blood and blackness of the eyes:
    Ay, and we would have laid our cheeks within thy way, That so thy
         feet might tread on eyelids, carpet-wise!

    I thanked her, for indeed love of her had taken hold of me, and
    my grief and anxiety left me. We sat carousing till nightfall,
    and I passed the night with her, never knew I such a night. On
    the morrow, delight succeeded delight till the middle of the day,
    when I drank wine, till I lost my senses and rose, staggering
    from side to side, and said to her, "Come, O fair one! I will
    carry thee up from under the earth and rid thee of this genie."
    She laughed and replied, "Be content and hold thy peace. One day
    in every ten is the genie's, and the other nine shall be thine."
    Quoth I (and indeed drunkenness had got the better of me), "This
    very moment will I break the alcove, on which is graven the
    talisman, and summon the Afrit hither, that I may kill him, for I
    am used to kill Afrits ten at a time." When she heard this, she
    conjured me by Allah to refrain and repeated the following
    verses:

    This is a thing wherein thine own destruction lies: I rede thee
         keep thyself therefrom, if thou be wise.

    And also these:

    O thou that seek'st to hasten on the feet Of parting's steeds,
         the matchless swift of flight,
    Forbear, for fortune's nature is deceit, And parting is the end
         of love delight.

    I paid no heed to her words, but kicked the alcove with all my
    might, and immediately the place grew dark, it thundered and
    lightened, the earth trembled and the world was wrapped in gloom.
    When I saw this, the fumes of the wine left my head and I said to
    the lady, "What is the matter?" "The Afrit is upon us," answered
    she "Did I not warn thee of this! By Allah, thou hast ruined me!
    But fly for thy life and return whence thou camest." So I
    ascended the stair, but, in the excess of my fear I forgot my
    sandals and hatchet. When I had mounted two steps, I turned to
    look, and behold, the ground clove in sunder and out came an
    Afrit of hideous aspect, who said to the lady, "What is this
    commotion with which thou disturbest me? What misfortune has
    befallen thee?" "Nothing has befallen me," answered she, "except
    that I was heavy at heart and drank a little wine to hearten
    myself. Then I rose to do an occasion, but my head became heavy
    and I fell against the alcove." "Thou liest, O harlot!" said he,
    and looked right and left, till he caught sight of the axe and
    the sandals and said, "These are some man's gear. Who has been
    with thee?" Quoth she, "I never set eyes on them till this
    moment; they must have clung to thee as thou camest hither." But
    he said, "This talk is absurd and will not impose on me, O
    strumpet!" Then he stripped her naked and stretching her on the
    ground, tied her hands and feet to four stakes and proceeded to
    torture her to make her confess. I could not bear to hear her
    weeping; so I ascended the stair, quaking for fear. When I
    reached the top, I replaced the trap-door and covered it over
    with earth; and I thought of the lady and her beauty and what had
    befallen her through my folly and repented me sore of what I had
    done. Then I bethought me of my father and his kingdom and how I
    had become a woodcutter, and how, after my life had been awhile
    serene, it had again become troubled, and I wept and repeated the
    following verse:

    What time the cruelties of Fate o'erwhelm thee with distress,
         Think that one day must bring thee ease, another day
         duresse.

    Then I went on till I reached the house of my friend, whom I
    found awaiting me, as he were on coals of fire on my account.
    When he saw me, he rejoiced and said, "O my brother, where didst
    thou pass the night? My heart has been full of anxiety on thine
    account, fearing for thee from the wild beasts or other peril:
    but praised be God for thy safety!" I thanked him for his
    solicitude, and retiring to my chamber, fell a-musing on what had
    passed and reproached myself grievously for my meddlesomeness in
    kicking the alcove. Presently the tailor came in to me and said,
    "O my son, there is without an old man, a foreigner, who seeks
    thee. He has thine axe and sandals and came to the woodcutters
    and said to them, 'I went out at the hour of the call to morning
    prayer and happened on these and know not whose they are: direct
    me to their owner.' They knew thine axe and sent him to thee; and
    he is now sitting in my shop. So do thou go out to him and thank
    him and take thy gear." When I heard this, my colour changed and
    I was sick for terror but before I could think, the floor clove
    asunder and up came the stranger, and lo, it was the Afrit! Now
    he had tortured the lady in the most barbarous manner, without
    being able to make her confess: so he took the axe and sandals,
    saying, "As sure as I am Jerjis of the lineage of Iblis, I will
    bring back the owner of this axe and these sandals!" So he went
    to the woodcutters with the tale aforesaid, and they directed him
    to me. He snatched me up without parley and flew high into the
    air, but presently descended and plunged into the ground with me,
    and I the while unconscious. Then he came up with me in the
    underground palace, where I saw the lady stretched out naked,
    with the blood running from her sides. At this sight, my eyes ran
    over with tears; but the Afrit unbound her and veiling her, said
    to her, "O wanton, is not this thy lover?" She looked at me and
    said, "I know not this man, nor have I ever seen him till now."
    Quoth he, "Wilt thou not confess after all this torture?" And she
    answered, "I never saw him in my life, and God forbid that I
    should lie against him and thou kill him." "Then," said he, "if
    thou know him not, take this sword and cut off his head." She
    took the sword and came and stood at my head; and I made signs to
    her with my eyebrows whilst the tears ran down my cheeks. She
    understood me and signed to me with her eyes as who should say,
    "Thou hast brought all this upon us." And I answered her, in the
    same fashion, that it was a time for forgiveness; and the tongue
    of the case spoke[FN#31] the words of the poet:

    My looks interpret for my tongue and tell of what I feel: And all
         the love appears that I within my heart conceal.
    When as we meet and down our cheeks our tears are running fast,
         I'm dumb, and yet my speaking eyes my thought of thee
         reveal.
    She signs to me; and I, I know the things her glances say: I with
         my fingers sign, and she conceives the mute appeal.
    Our eyebrows of themselves suffice unto our intercourse: We're
         mute; but passion none the less speaks in the looks we
         steal.

    Then she threw down the sword and said, "How shall I strike off
    the head of one whom I know not and who has done me no hurt? My
    religion will not allow of this." Quoth the Afrit, "It is
    grievous to thee to kill thy lover. Because he hath lain a night
    with thee, thou endurest this torture and wilt not confess upon
    him. It is only like that pities like." Then he turned to me and
    said, "O mortal, dost thou not know this woman?" "Who is she?"
    answered I. "I never saw her till now." "Then," said he "take
    this sword and strike off her head and I will believe that thou
    knowest her not and will let thee go and do thee no hurt." Quoth
    I, "It is well;" and taking the sword, went up to her briskly and
    raised my hand. But she signed to me with her eyebrows, as who
    should say, "What hurt have I done thee? Is it thus thou
    requitest me?" I understood what she would say and replied in the
    same manner, "I will ransom thee with my life." And the tongue of
    the case repeated the following verses:

    How many a lover with his eyelids speaks And doth his thought
         unto his mistress tell
    He flashes signals to her with his eyes, And she at once is ware
         of what befell.
    How swift the looks that pass betwixt the twain! How fair,
         indeed, and how delectable!
    One with his eyelids writes what he would say: The other with her
         eyes the writ doth spell.

    Then my eyes ran over with tears and I said, "O mighty Afrit and
    doughty hero! if a woman, lacking sense and religion, deem it
    unlawful to strike off my head, how can I, who am a man, bring
    myself to slay her whom I never saw in my life? Never will I
    do it, though I drink the cup of death and ruin!" And I threw
    the sword from my hand. Quoth the Afrit, "Ye show the good
    understanding between you, but I will let you see the issue of
    your doings." Then he took the sword and cut off the lady's hands
    and feet at four strokes; whilst I looked on and made sure of
    death; and she signed me a farewell with her eyes. Quoth he,
    "Thou cuckoldest me with thine eyes!" And struck off her head
    with a blow of his sword. Then he turned to me and said, "O
    mortal, by our law; when our wives commit adultery, it is lawful
    to us to put them to death. As for this woman, I stole her away
    on her wedding-night, when she was a girl of twelve, and she has
    known no one but myself. I used to come to her once in every
    ten days in the habit of a man, a foreigner, and pass one night
    with her; and when I was assured that she had played me false,
    I slew her. But as for thee, I am not sure that thou west her
    accomplice: nevertheless, I must not let thee go unharmed; but I
    will grant thee a favour." At this I rejoiced greatly and said,
    "What favour wilt thou grant me?" "I will give thee thy choice,"
    replied he, "whether I shall change thee into a dog, an ass or an
    ape." Quoth I (and indeed I had hoped that he would pardon me),
    "By Allah, spare me, and God will reward thee for sparing a true
    believer, who hath done thee no harm." And I humbled myself
    before him to the utmost and wept, saying, "Indeed, thou dost me
    injustice." "Do not multiply words on me," answered he; "it is in
    my power to kill thee: but I give thee thy choice." "O Afrit,"
    rejoined I, "it would best become thee to pardon me, even as the
    envied pardoned the envier." Quoth he, "And how was that?" "They
    say, O Afrit," answered I, "that




    Story of the Envier and the Envied.



    There dwelt once in a certain city two men, who occupied
    adjoining houses, having a common party-wall; and one of them
    envied the other and looked on him with an evil eye and did his
    utmost endeavour to work him ill; and his envy grew on him till
    he could hardly eat or enjoy the delight of sleep for it. But the
    envied man did nought but prosper, and the more the other strove
    to do him hurt, the more he increased and throve and flourished.
    At last the hatred his neighbour bore him and his constant
    endeavour to do him hurt came to his knowledge and he said, 'By
    Allah, I will renounce the world on his account!' So he left his
    native place and settled in a distant city, where he bought a
    piece of land, in which was a dried-up well, that had once been
    used for watering the fields. Here he built him an oratory, which
    he fitted up with all that he required, and took up his abode
    therein, devoting himself with a sincere heart to the service of
    God the Most High. Fakirs[FN#32] and poor folk soon flocked to
    him from all sides, and his fame spread abroad in the city, so
    that the notables resorted to him. After awhile, the news reached
    the envious man of the good fortune that had befallen his old
    neighbour and the high consideration in which he was held: so he
    set out for the town in which the latter dwelt and repaired to
    the hermitage, where the envied man welcomed him and received him
    with the utmost honour. Quoth the envier, 'I have journeyed
    hither on purpose to tell thee a piece of good news. So order thy
    fakirs to retire to their cells and go with me apart, for I will
    not say what I have to tell thee, except privately where none may
    overhear us.' Accordingly the envied man ordered the fakirs to
    retire to their cells; and they did so. Then he took the other by
    the hand and walked on with him a little way, till they came to
    the deserted well, when the envious man gave the other a push and
    cast him into the well, unseen of any; after which, he went out
    and went his way thinking that he had killed him. Now this well
    was haunted by Jinn, who bore up the envied man and let him down
    little by little, so that he reached the bottom unhurt, and they
    seated him on a stone. Then said one of the Jinn to the others,
    'Know ye who this is?' And they answered, 'No.' Quoth he, 'This
    is the envied man who fled from him who envied him and settled in
    our city, where he built him this oratory and entertains us with
    his litanies and recitations of the Koran. But the envious man
    set out and journeyed till he rejoined him and contrived to throw
    him into this well. Now the news of him hath this very night come
    to the Sultan of the city and he purposes to visit him to-morrow,
    on account of his daughter. 'And what ails his daughter?' asked
    another. 'She is possessed of an evil spirit,' replied the first,
    'for the genie Meimoun ben Demdem has fallen in love with her;
    but if the pious man knew the remedy, he could cure her; and it
    is the easiest of things.' 'And what is the remedy?' asked the
    other. Quoth the first speaker 'The black cat that is with him in
    the oratory has a white spot, the size of a dirhem, at the end of
    her tail: he should take seven white hairs from this spot and
    fumigate the princess therewith; whereupon the Marid will leave
    her and never return, and she will be cured immediately.' And the
    envied man heard all this. When the day broke and the morning
    appeared and shone, the fakirs came to seek their chief and found
    him rising from the well, wherefore he was magnified in their
    eyes; and he took the black cat and plucking seven white hairs
    from the spot at the end of her tail, laid them aside. The sun
    had hardly risen when the King arrived and entered the hermitage,
    attended by his chief officers, leaving the rest of his suite
    without. The envied man bade him welcome and drawing near to him,
    said, 'Shall I tell thee the object of thy visit?' 'Yes,'
    answered the King. And he said, 'Thou comest to consult me
    concerning thy daughter.' Quoth the King, 'Thou sayst truly, O
    virtuous elder!' Then said the envied man, 'Send and fetch her,
    and (God willing) I trust to cure her at once.' The King rejoiced
    and sent for his daughter; and they brought her bound hand and
    foot. The envied man made her sit down behind a curtain and
    taking out the hairs, fumigated her with them; whereupon the
    Afrit that was in her roared out and departed from her. And she
    was restored to her right mind and veiled her face, saying, 'What
    has happened and who brought me hither?' At this, the Sultan
    rejoiced beyond measure and kissed her on the eyes and kissed the
    envied man's hand. Then he turned to his officers and said, 'How
    say you? What reward doth he deserve who cured my daughter?' They
    answered, 'He deserves to have her to wife;' and the King, 'Ye
    say well.' So he married him to her, and the envied man became
    the King's son-in-law. After awhile, the Vizier died, and the
    King said, 'Whom shall we make Vizier in his stead?' 'Thy
    son-in-law,' answered the courtiers. So the envied man was made
    Vizier. Presently the Sultan also died, and the grandees
    determined to appoint the Vizier King in his place. So they made
    him Sultan, and he became King regnant. One day, as he was riding
    forth in his royal state, surrounded by his Viziers and Amirs and
    grandees, his eyes fell on his old neighbour, the envious man; so
    he turned to one of his viziers and said to him, 'Bring me yonder
    man and frighten him not.' So the Vizier went and returned with
    the envious man: and the King said, 'Give him a thousand dinars
    from my treasury and twenty loads of merchandise and send him
    under an escort to his own city.' Then he bade him farewell and
    sent him away and forbore to punish him for what he had done with
    him See, O Afrit, how the envied man forgave his envier, who had
    always hated him and borne him malice and had journeyed to him
    and made shift to throw him into the well: yet did he not requite
    him his ill-doing, but on the contrary was bountiful to him and
    forgave him." Then I wept before him exceeding sore, and repeated
    the following verses:

    I prithee, pardon mine offence: for men of prudent mind To pardon
         unto those that sin their sins are still inclined.
    If I, alas! contain in me all fashions of offence, Let there in
         thee forgiveness fair be found in every kind.
    For men are bound to pardon those that are beneath their hand, If
         they themselves with those that be above them grace would
         find.

    Quoth the Afrit, "I will neither kill thee nor let thee go free,
    but I will assuredly enchant thee." Then he tore me from the
    ground and flew up with me into the air, till I saw the earth as
    it were a platter midmost the water. Presently he set me down on
    a mountain and took a little earth, over which he muttered some
    magical words, then sprinkled me with it, saying, "Quit this
    shape for that of an ape." And immediately I became an ape, a
    hundred years old. Then he went away and left me; and when I saw
    myself in this ugly shape, I wept, but resigned myself to the
    tyranny of fate, knowing that fortune is constant to no one, and
    descended to the foot of the mountain, where found a wide plain.
    I fared on for the space of a month till my course brought me to
    the shore of the salt sea: where I stood awhile and presently
    caught sight of a ship in the midst of the sea, making for the
    land with a fair wind. I hid myself behind a rock on the beach
    and waited till the ship drew near, when I sprang on board. Quoth
    one of the passengers, "Turn this unlucky brute out from amongst
    us!" And the captain said, "Let us kill him." And a third, "I
    will kill him with this sword." But I laid hold of the captain's
    skirts and wept, and the tears ran down my face. The captain took
    pity on me and said, "O merchants, this ape appeals to me for
    protection, and I will protect him: henceforth he is under my
    safeguard, and none shall molest or annoy him." Then he entreated
    me kindly and whatever he said I understood and ministered to all
    his wants and waited on him, so that he loved me. The ship sailed
    on with a fair wind for the space of fifty days, at the end of
    which time we cast anchor over against a great city, wherein were
    much people, none could tell their number save God. No sooner had
    we come to an anchor, than we were boarded by officers from the
    King of the city; who said to the merchants, "Our King gives you
    joy of your safety and sends you this scroll of paper, on which
    each one of you is to write a line. For know that the King's
    Vizier, who was an excellent penman, is dead and the King has
    sworn a solemn oath that he will make none Vizier in his stead
    who cannot write like him." Then they gave them a scroll, ten
    cubits long by one wide, and each of the merchants, who could
    write, wrote a line therein: after which I rose and snatched the
    scroll from their hands, and they cried out at me and rated me,
    fearing that I would tear it or throw it into the sea. But I made
    signs that I would write; whereat they marvelled, saying, "We
    never saw an ape write!" And the captain said to them, "Let him
    alone; if he scrabble, we will drive him away and kill him; but
    if he write well, I will adopt him as my son, for I never saw so
    intelligent and well-mannered an ape; and would God my son had
    his sense and good breeding!" So I took the pen and dipping it in
    the inkhorn, wrote in an epistolary hand the following verses:

    Time hath recorded the virtues of the great: But thine have
         remained unchronicled till now.
    May God not orphan the human race of thee, For sire and mother of
         all good deeds art thou.

    Then I wrote the following in a running hand:

    Thou hast a pen whose use confers good gifts on every clime; Upon
         all creatures of the world its happy favours fall.
    What are the bounties of the Nile to thy munificence, Whose
         fingers five extend to shower thy benefits on all?

    And in an engrossing hand the following:

    There is no writer but he shall pass away: Yet what he writes
         shall last for ever and aye.
    Write, therefore, nought but that which shall gladden thee, When
         as it meets thine eye on the Judgment Day.

    And in a transcribing hand the following:

    When separation is to us by destiny decreed And 'gainst the cruel
         chance of Fate our efforts are in vain,
    Unto the inkhorn's mouth we fly that, by the tongues of pens, Of
         parting and its bitterness it may for us complain.

    And in a large formal hand the following:

    The regal state endureth not to any mortal man. If thou deny
         this, where is he who first on earth held sway?
    Plant therefore saplings of good deeds, whilst that thou yet art
         great Though thou be ousted from thy stead, they shall not
         pass away.

    And in a court hand the following:

    When thou the inkhorn op'st of power and lordship over men, Make
         thou thine ink of noble thoughts and generous purpose; then
    Write gracious deeds and good therewith, whilst that thy power
         endures. So shall thy virtues blazoned be at point of sword
         and pen.

    Then I gave the scroll to the officers, who took it and returned
    with it to the King. When he saw it, no writing pleased him but
    mine; so he said to his officers, "Go to the writer of these
    lines and dress him in a splendid robe; then mount him on a mule
    and bring him to me with a band of music before him." At this
    they smiled, and the King was wroth with them and said, "O
    accursed ones, I give you an order, and ye laugh at me!" "O
    King," answered they, "we have good cause to laugh." Quoth he,
    "What is it?" And they replied, "O King, thou orderest us to
    bring thee the man who wrote these lines: now he who wrote them
    is no man, but an ape belonging to the captain of the ship."
    "Can this be true?" asked he; and they said, "Yea, by thy
    munificence!" The King was astonished at their report and shook
    with mirth and said, "I have a mind to buy this ape of the
    captain." Then he sent messengers to the ship and said to them,
    "Dress him none the less in the robe and mount him on the mule
    and bring him hither in state, with the band of music before
    him." So they came to the ship and took me and clad me in the
    robe and mounted me on the mule and carried me in procession
    through the city; whilst the people were astounded and crowded to
    gaze upon me, and the place was all astir on my account. When I
    reached the King's presence, I kissed the earth before him three
    times, and he bade me be seated; so I sat down on my heels; and
    all the bystanders marvelled at my good manners, and the King
    most of all. After awhile the King dismissed his courtiers, and
    there remained but myself, his highness the King, an eunuch and a
    little white slave. Then the King gave orders and they brought
    the table of food, containing all kinds of birds that hop and fly
    and couple in the nests, such as grouse and quails and so forth.
    He signed to me to eat with him; so I rose and kissed the earth
    before him then sat down and ate with him. When we had done
    eating, the table was removed, and I washed my hands seven times.
    Then I took pen and ink and wrote the following verses:

    Weep for the cranes that erst within the porringers did lie, And
         for the stews and partridges evanished heave a sigh!
    Mourn for the younglings of the grouse; lament unceasingly, As,
         for the omelettes and the fowls browned in the pan, do I.
    How my heart yearneth for the fish, that in its different kinds,
         Upon a paste of wheaten flour lay hidden in the pie!
    Praised be God for the roast meat! As in the dish it lay, With
         pot-herbs, soaked in vinegar, in porringers hard by!
    My hunger was appeased: I lay, intent upon the gleam Of arms that
         in the frumenty were buried bracelet high.
    I woke my sleeping appetite to eat, as 'twere in jest, Of all the
         tarts that, piled on trays, shone fair unto the eye.
    O soul, have patience! For indeed, Fate full of marvel is: If
         fortune straiten thee one day, the next relief is nigh.

    Then I rose and seated myself at a distance, whilst the King read
    what I had written and marvelled and said "Strange that an ape
    should be gifted with such fluency and skill in penmanship! By
    Allah, this is a wonder of wonders!" Then they set choice wine
    before the King in flagons of glass; and he drank, then passed
    the cup to me; and I kissed the earth and drank and wrote the
    following verses:

    They burnt me[FN#33] with fire, to make me speak, And found me
         patient and debonair.
    For this I am borne on men's hands on high And kiss the rosy lips
         of the fair!

    And these also:

    Morn struggles through the dusk; so pour me out, I pray, Of wine,
         such wine as makes the saddest-hearted gay!
    So pure and bright it is, that whether wine in glass Or glass in
         wine be held, i' faith, 'tis hard to say.

    The King read them and said, with a sigh, "If a man had this
    quickness of wit, he would excel all the folk of his age and
    time." Then he called for a chess-board and said to me, "Wilt
    thou play with me?" I signed with my head as who should say,
    "Yes," and came forward and placed the men and played two games
    with him, each of which I won, much to his amazement. Then I took
    the pen and wrote the following verses:

    Two hosts throughout the live-long day contend in deadly fight,
         That waxes ever till the shades of night upon them creep;
    Then, when the darkness puts an end at last unto their strife,
         Upon one couch and side by side, they lay them down to
         sleep.

    These verses filled the King with wonder and delight, and he said
    to the eunuch, "Go to thy mistress, the Lady of Beauty, and bid
    her come and amuse herself with the sight of this wonderful ape."
    So the eunuch went out and presently returned with the lady, who,
    when she saw me, veiled her face, and said, "O my father, how
    comes it that thou art pleased to send for me and show me to
    strange men?" "O my daughter," said he, "there is none here save
    the little slave and the eunuch who reared thee and myself, thy
    father. From whom then dost thou veil thy face?" Quoth she, "This
    that thou deemest an ape is a wise and learned man, the son of a
    king; the Afrit Jerjis of the lineage of Iblis enchanted him
    thus, after putting to death his own wife, the daughter of King
    Efitamous, Lord of the Ebony Islands." At this the King wondered
    and turning to me, said, "Is this true that she says of thee?"
    And I signed with my head, as who should say, "Yes;" and wept.
    Then said he to his daughter, "Whence knewest thou that he was
    enchanted?" "O my father," answered she, "there was with me, in
    my childhood, an old woman who was skilled in magic and taught me
    its rules and practice; and I became skilled therein and
    committed to memory a hundred and seventy magical formulas, by
    the least of which I could transport the stones of thy?? behind
    the mountain Caf and make its site an abyss of the sea and its
    people fishes swimming in its midst." "O my daughter," said her
    father, "I conjure thee, by my life, to disenchant this young
    man, that I may make him my Vizier, for he is a right pleasant
    and ingenious youth." "With all my heart," replied she, and
    taking a knife, on which were engraved Hebrew characters, drew
    therewith a circle in the midst of the hall and wrote there in
    names and talismans and muttered words and charms, some of which
    we understood and others not. Presently the world darkened upon
    us, and the Afrit presented himself before us in his own shape
    and aspect, with hands like pitchforks legs like masts and eyes
    like flames of fire. We were affrighted at him, but the princess
    said to him, "An ill welcome to thee, O dog!" Whereupon he took
    the form of a lion and said to her, "O traitress, thou hast
    broken thy compact with me! Did we not swear that neither of us
    should molest the other?" "O accursed one," answered she, "how
    could there be a compact between me and the like of thee?"
    "Then," said he, "take what thou hast brought on thyself." And
    opening his mouth, rushed upon her: but she made haste and
    plucked a hair from her head and waved it in the air, muttering
    the while; and it at once became a sharp sword, with which she
    smote the lion and cut him in two. His head became a scorpion,
    whereupon the princess transformed herself into a great serpent
    and fell upon the scorpion and there befell a sore battle between
    them. Presently the scorpion changed to an eagle, and the serpent
    at once became a griffin, which pursued the eagle a long while,
    till the latter became a black cat. Thereupon the griffin became
    a piebald wolf and they fought long and sore, till the cat
    finding itself beaten, changed into a worm and crept into a
    pomegranate which lay beside the fountain in the midst of the
    hall whereupon the pomegranate swelled till it was as big as a
    watermelon. The wolf ran to seize it, but it rose into the air
    and falling on the pavement, broke in pieces, and all the seeds
    fell out and rolled hither and thither, till the floor was
    covered with them. Then the wolf shook itself and became a cock,
    which fell to picking up the seeds, till they were all gone,
    except one that, by the decree of Fate, had rolled to the side of
    the basin and lay hidden there. The cock began to crow and clap
    its wings and signed to us with his beak, as who should say,
    "Are there any grains left?" But we understood him not; and he
    gave such a cry that we thought the palace would fall on us.
    Then he ran about all over the hall, till he saw the remaining
    pomegranate-seed, and rushed to pick it up, but it sprang into
    the midst of the water and became a fish, which sank to the
    bottom of the basin. Thereupon the cock became big fish and
    plunged in after the other; and we saw nothing of them for
    a time, but heard a loud crying and screaming and trembled.
    Presently the Afrit rose out of the water, as he were one great
    flame, with fire and smoke issuing from his mouth and eyes and
    nostrils. Immediately after, the princess rose also, like a great
    coal of fire, and they fought till they were wrapped in flames
    and the hall was filled with smoke. As for us, we were well-nigh
    suffocated and hid ourselves and would have plunged into the
    water, fearing lest we be burnt up and destroyed: and the King
    said, "There is no power and no virtue but in God the Most High,
    the Supreme! We are God's and to Him we return! Would God I had
    not urged my daughter to attempt the delivery of this ape,
    whereby I have imposed on her this fearful labour with yonder
    accursed Afrit, against whom all the other Afrits in the world
    could not prevail! And would we had never seen this ape, may
    God's blessing not be on him nor on the hour of his coming! We
    thought to do him a kindness for the love of God, by freeing him
    from this enchantment, and lo, we have brought this terrible
    travail upon ourselves!" But my tongue was tied and I could not
    say a word to him. Suddenly, the Afrit roared out from under the
    flames and coming up to us, as we stood on the dais, blew fire in
    our faces. The princess pursued him and blew flames at him, and
    the sparks from them both fell upon us; her sparks did us no
    hurt, but of his one lighted on my right eye and destroyed it;
    another fell on the King's face and scorched the lower part,
    burning away half his beard and making his under teeth drop out,
    and a third lighted on the eunuch's breast and set him on fire,
    so that he was consumed and died forthright. So we despaired of
    life and looked for nothing but death; but presently we heard a
    voice exclaiming, "God is most great! He giveth aid and victory
    to the true believer and abandoneth him who denieth the religion
    of Mohammed, the Moon of the Faith!" And lo, the King's daughter
    had burnt up the Afrit and he was become a heap of ashes! Then
    she came up to us and said, "Bring me a cup of water." They did
    so: and she spoke over the water words we understood not and
    sprinkled me with it, saying, "By the virtue of the Truth and of
    the Most Great Name of God, return to thine original shape!" And
    immediately I shook and became a man as before, save that I had
    lost my right eye. Then she cried out, "The fire! The fire! O my
    father, I have but an instant to live, for I am not used to fight
    with Jinn: had he been a man, I had slain him long ago. I had no
    travail till the time when the pomegranate burst asunder and I
    overlooked the seed in which was the genie's life. Had I picked
    it up, he would have died at once; but as fate and destiny would
    have it, I knew not of this, so that he came upon me unawares and
    there befell between us a sore strife under the earth and in the
    air and in the water: and as often as I opened on him a
    gate[FN#34] (of magic), he opened on me another, till at last he
    opened on me the gate of fire, and seldom does he on whom the
    gate of fire is opened escape alive. But Providence aided me
    against him, so that I consumed him first, after I had summoned
    him to embrace the faith of Islam. As for me, I am a dead woman
    and may God supply my place to you!" Then she called upon God for
    help and ceased not to implore relief from the fire, till
    presently a tongue of fierce flame broke out from her clothes and
    shot up to her breast and thence to her face. When it reached her
    face, she wept and said, "I testify that there is no god but God
    and that Mohammed is the apostle of God!" And we looked at her
    and behold, she was a heap of ashes beside those of the genie. We
    mourned for her and I wished I had been in her place, so had I
    not seen the fair-faced one who had done me this good office
    reduced to ashes; but there is no averting the decree of God.
    When the King saw what had befallen his daughter, he plucked out
    the rest of his beard and buffeted his face and rent his clothes;
    and I did the like, and we both wept for her. Then came in the
    chamberlains and grandees and were amazed to find two heaps of
    ashes and the Sultan in a swoon. So they stood round him till he
    revived and told them what had happened, whereat they were sore
    afflicted and the women and slave-girls shrieked aloud and kept
    up their lamentation for the space of seven days. Moreover, the
    King bade build a great dome over his daughter's ashes and burn
    therein candles and lamps: but the Afrit's ashes they scattered
    to the winds, committing them to the malediction of God. The King
    was sick, well-nigh unto death, for a month's space, after which
    health returned to him and His beard grew again. Then he sent for
    me and said to me, "O youth, verily we led the happiest of lives,
    safe from the vicissitudes of fortune, till thou camest to us,
    when troubles flocked upon us. O that we had never seen thee nor
    the ugly face of thee! For through our taking pity on thee, we
    are come to this state of bereavement. I have lost, on thine
    account, first, my daughter, who was worth a hundred men;
    secondly, I have suffered what befell me by the fire and the loss
    of my teeth, and my eunuch also is dead. I do not indeed blame
    thee for aught of this; for all was decreed of God to us and to
    thee; and praised be He that my daughter delivered thee, though
    at the cost of her own life! But now, O my son, depart from my
    city and let what has befallen us on thine account suffice.
    Depart in peace, and if I see thee again I will kill thee." And
    he cried out at me. So I went forth from his presence, knowing
    not whither I should go, and hardly believing in my escape. And I
    recalled all that had befallen me from first to last and thanked
    God that it was my eye that I had lost and not my life. Before I
    left the town, I entered the bath and shaved my head and put on a
    hair-cloth garment. Then I fared forth at a venture, and every
    day I recalled all the misfortunes that had befallen me and wept
    and repeated the following verses:

    By the Compassionate, I'm dazed and know not where I go. Griefs
         flock on me from every side, I know not whence they grow.
    I will endure till patience' self less patient is than I: I will
         have patience till it please the Lord to end my woe.
    A vanquished man, without complaint, my doom I will endure, As
         the parched traveller in the waste endures the torrid glow.
    I will endure till aloes'[FN#35] self confess that I, indeed, Can
         'gainst a bitt'rer thing abide than even it can show.
    There is no bitt'rer thing; and yet if patience play me false, It
         were to me a bitt'rer thing than all the rest, I trow.
    The wrinkles graven on my heart would speak my hidden pain If
         through my breast the thought could pierce and read what
         lies below.
    Were but my load on mountains laid, they'd crumble into dust; On
         fire it would be quenched outright; on wind, 'twould cease
         to blow.
    Let who will say that life is sweet; to all there comes a day
         When they must needs a bitt'rer thing than aloes[FN#36]
         undergo.

    Then I journeyed through many lands and cities, intending for the
    Abode of Peace[FN#37], Baghdad, in the hope that I might get
    speech of the Commander of the Faithful and tell him all that had
    befallen me. I arrived here this night and found my brother, this
    first Calender, standing perplexed; so I saluted him and entered
    into converse with him. Presently up came our brother, this third
    Calender, and said to us, "Peace be on you! I am a stranger." "We
    also are strangers," answered we, "and have come hither this
    blessed night." So we all three walked on together, none of us
    knowing the others' story, till chance brought us to this door
    and we came in to you. This, then, is my story and the manner of
    the shaving of my face and the loss of my eye.' Quoth the
    mistress of the house, 'Thy story is indeed a rare one: and now
    begone about thy business.' But he replied, 'I will not stir till
    I hear the others' stories.' Then came forward the third Calender
    and said, 'O illustrious lady, my history is not like that of
    these my comrades, but still stranger and more marvellous, in
    that, whilst destiny and fore-ordained fate overcame them
    unawares, I with mine own hand drew fate and affliction upon
    myself, as thou shalt presently hear. Know that




                      Story of the Third Calender.



    I also am a king, the son of a king, and my name is Agib, son of
    Khesib. My father died, and I took the kingdom after him and
    ruled my subjects with justice and beneficence. My capital city
    stood on the shore of a wide spreading sea, on which I had fifty
    merchant ships and fifty smaller vessels for pleasure and a
    hundred and fifty cruisers equipped for war; and near at hand
    were many great islands in the midst of the ocean. Now I loved to
    sail the sea and had a mind to visit the islands aforesaid so I
    took ship with a month's victual and set out and took my pleasure
    in the islands and returned to my capital Then, being minded to
    make a longer voyage upon the ocean, I fitted out half a score
    ships with provision for two months and sailed twenty days, till
    one night the wind blew contrary and the sea rose against us with
    great billows; the waves clashed together and there fell on us a
    great darkness. So we gave ourselves up for lost and I said, "He
    who perils himself is not to be commended, though he come off
    safe." Then we prayed to God and besought Him, but the wind
    ceased not to rage and the waves to clash together, till
    daybreak, when the wind fell, the sea became calm and the sun
    shone out. Presently we sighted an island, where we landed and
    cooked food and ate and rested two days. Then we set out again
    and sailed other twenty days, without seeing land; but the
    currents carried us out of our true course, so that the captain
    lost his reckoning and finding himself in strange waters, bade
    the watch go up to the mast-head and look out. So he climbed the
    mast and looked out and said "O captain, I see nothing to right
    and left save sky and water, but ahead I see something looming
    afar off in the midst of the sea, now black and now white." When
    the captain heard the look-out's words, he cast his turban on the
    deck and plucked out his beard and buffeted his face and said, "O
    King, we are all dead men, not one of us can be saved." We all
    wept for his weeping and I said to him, "O captain, tell us what
    it is the look-out saw." "O my lord," answered he, "know that we
    lost our way on the night of the storm and since then we have
    gone astray one-and-twenty days and there is no wind to bring us
    back to our true course. To-morrow, by the end of the day, we
    shall come to a mountain of black stone, called loadstone, for
    thither the currents bear us perforce. As soon as we come within
    a certain distance, all the nails in the ships will fly out and
    fasten to the mountain, and the ships will open and fall to
    pieces, for that God the Most High has gifted the loadstone with
    a secret virtue, by reason whereof all iron is attracted to it;
    and on this mountain is much iron, how much God only knows, from
    the many ships that have been wrecked there from old time. On its
    summit there stands a dome of brass, raised on ten columns and on
    the top of the dome are a horse and horseman of the same metal.
    The latter holds in his hand a brazen lance and on his breast is
    a tablet of lead, graven with names and talismans: and, O King,
    it is nought but this horseman that causeth the folk to perish,
    nor will the charm be broken till he fall from his horse." Then
    he wept sore and we all made sure of death and each took leave of
    his comrade and charged him with his last wishes, in case he
    should be saved. That night we slept not, and in the morning, we
    sighted the loadstone mountain, towards which the currents
    carried us with irresistible force. When the ships came within a
    certain distance, they opened and the nails started out and all
    the iron in them sought the loadstone and clove to it; so that by
    the end of the day, we were all struggling in the sea round the
    mountain. Some of us were saved, but the most part drowned, and
    even those who escaped knew not one of the other, being stupefied
    by the raging wind and the buffeting of the waves. As for me, God
    preserved me that I might suffer that which He willed to me of
    trouble and torment and affliction, for I got on a plank from one
    of the ships and, the wind driving it ashore, I happened on a
    pathway leading to the top, as it were a stair hewn out of the
    rock. So I called upon the name of God the Most High and besought
    His succour and clinging to the steps, addressed myself to climb
    up little by little. And God stilled the wind and aided me in my
    ascent, so that I reached the summit in safety. There I found
    nothing but the dome; so I entered, mightily rejoiced at my
    escape, and made my ablutions and prayed a two-bow prayer[FN#38]
    in gratitude to God for my preservation. Then I fell asleep under
    the dome and saw in a dream one who said to me, "O son of Khesib,
    when thou awakest, dig under thy feet and thou wilt find a bow of
    brass and three leaden arrows, inscribed with talismanic
    characters. Take the bow and shoot the arrows at the horseman on
    the top of the dome and rid mankind of this great calamity. When
    thou shootest at him, he will fall into the sea and the horse
    will drop at thy feet: take it and bury it in the place of the
    bow. This done, the sea will swell and rise till it is level with
    the top of the mountain, and there will appear on it a boat
    containing a man of brass (other than he whom thou shalt have
    thrown down), with an oar in his hands. He will come to thee, and
    do thou embark with him, but beware of naming God. He will row
    with thee for the space of ten days, till he brings thee to a
    port of safety, where thou shalt find those who will carry thee
    to thine own country: and all this shall be fulfilled to thee, so
    thou pronounce not the name of God." I started up from my sleep
    and hastening to do the bidding of the mysterious voice, found
    the bow and arrows and shot at the horseman and overthrew him;
    whereupon he fell into the sea, whilst the horse dropped at my
    feet and I took it and buried it. Then the sea grew troubled and
    rose till it reached the top of the mountain; nor had I long to
    wait before I saw a boat in the midst of the sea coming towards
    me. So I gave thanks to God: and when the boat came up to me, I
    saw in it a man of brass, with a tablet of lead on his breast,
    inscribed with names and talismans; and I embarked without saying
    a word. The boatman rowed on with me for ten whole days, till I
    caught sight of islands and mountains and signs of safety;
    whereat I was beyond measure rejoiced and in the excess of my
    gladness, I called upon the name of the Almighty and exclaimed,
    "There is no god but God! God is most great!" When behold, the
    boat turned over and cast me out into the sea, then righted and
    sank beneath the water. Now, I knew how to swim, so I swam the
    whole day till nightfall, when my arms and shoulders failed me
    for fatigue, and I abode in mortal peril and made the profession
    of the Faith[FN#39], looking for nothing but death. Presently,
    the sea rose, for the greatness of the wind, and a wave like a
    great rampart took me and bearing me forward, cast me up on the
    land, that the will of God might be done. I clambered up the
    beach and, putting off my clothes, wrung them and spread them out
    to dry, then lay down and slept all night. As soon as it was day,
    I put on my clothes and rose to look about me. Presently I came
    to a grove of trees and making a circuit round it, found that I
    was on a little island, surrounded on all sides by the sea;
    whereupon I said to myself, "No sooner do I escape from one peril
    than I fall into a worse." But as I was pondering my case and
    wishing for death, I spied a ship afar off making towards me; so
    I climbed up into a tree and hid myself among the branches.
    Presently the ship came to an anchor, and ten slaves landed,
    bearing spades, and made for the middle of the island, where they
    dug till they uncovered a trapdoor and raised it. Then they
    returned to the ship and brought thence bread and flour and oil
    and honey and meat and carpets and all else that was needed to
    furnish one dwelling there; nor did they leave going back and
    forth till they had transferred to the underground dwelling all
    that was in the ship: after which they again repaired to the
    vessel and returned, laden with wearing apparel of the finest
    kind and in their midst a very old man, whom time had mauled till
    he was wasted and worn, as he were a bone wrapped in a rag of
    blue cloth, through which the winds blew East and West. As says
    the poet of him:

    Time makes us tremble ah, how piteously! For full of violence and
         might is he.
    Once on a time I walked and was not tired: Now am I tired, yet
         have not walked, ah me!

    He held by the hand a youth cast in the mould of symmetry and
    perfection, so fair that his beauty might well be the subject of
    proverbs; for he was like a tender sapling, ravishing every heart
    with his beauty and seducing every wit with his amorous grace. It
    was of him the poet spoke, when he said:

    Beauty they brought to liken it with him: But Beauty hung its
         head for shame and fear.
    "O Beauty," said they, "dost thou know his like?" It answered,
         "Never have I seen his peer."

    They proceeded to the underground, where they descended all and
    did not reappear for an hour or more, at the end of which time
    the old man and the slaves came up, without the youth, and
    replacing the trap-door, covered it again with earth; then
    returned to the ship and set sail. As soon as they were out of
    sight, I came down from the tree and going to the place I had
    seen them fill up, made shift to clear away the earth, till I
    came to the trap-door, which was of wood, the shape and bigness
    of a mill-stone, and raised it, when there appeared underneath a
    winding stair of stone. At this I wondered and descending, came
    to a fair chamber, spread with various kinds of carpets and hung
    with silken stuffs, where I saw the youth sitting alone upon a
    raised couch and leant upon a cushion, with a fan in his hand and
    sweet-scented flowers and herbs and fruits before him. When he
    saw me, he turned pale; but I saluted him, saying, "Calm thyself
    and put away fear; no harm shall come to thee: I am a man like
    unto thee and a king's son, whom Providence hath sent to bear
    thee company in thy solitude. But now tell me thy history and why
    thou dwellest underground by thyself." When he was assured that I
    was of his kind, he was glad and his colour returned; then he
    made me draw near to him and said, "O my brother, my story is a
    strange one, and it is as follows. My father is a merchant
    jeweller, possessed of great wealth and having black and white
    slaves, who make trading voyages, on his account, in ships and on
    camels, to the most distant countries; and he has dealings with
    kings. Until my birth, he had never been blessed with a child,
    but one night he dreamt that a son had been born to him, who
    lived but a short time, and awoke weeping and crying out. The
    following night my mother conceived and he took note of the date
    of her conception. The days of her pregnancy were accomplished
    and she gave birth to myself, whereupon my father rejoiced and
    made banquets and fed the poor and the needy for that I had been
    vouchsafed to him in his old age. Then he assembled the
    astrologers and mathematicians of the day and those learned in
    nativities and horoscopes; and they drew my horoscope and said to
    my father, 'Thy son will live till the age of fifteen, at which
    date there is a break[FN#40] in his line of life, which if he
    tide over in safety, he shall live long. The danger with which he
    is threatened is as follows. In the Sea of Peril stands a
    mountain called the Loadstone Mountain, on whose summit is a
    horseman of brass, seated on a horse of the same metal, with a
    tablet of lead on his breast. Fifty days after this horseman
    falls from his horse, thy son will die, and his slayer will be he
    who overthrows the statue, a king called Agib, son of Khesib.' My
    father was sore concerned at this prediction; but he brought me
    up and gave me a good education, till I attained my fifteenth
    year. Ten days ago, news came to him that the horseman had fallen
    into the sea and that he who overthrew him was Agib, son of King
    Khesib; whereat he was as one distraught and feared for my life.
    So he built me this place under the earth and stocking it with
    all that I need during the forty days that yet remain of the
    period of danger, transported me hither, that I might be safe
    from King Agib's hands. When the forty days are past, he will
    come back and fetch me; and this is my story and why thou findest
    me here alone." When I heard his story, I marvelled and said to
    myself, "I am that King Agib of whom he speaks; but, by Allah, I
    will assuredly not kill him!" And I said to him, "O my lord, God
    willing, thou shalt be spared suffering and death, nor shalt thou
    see trouble or sorrow or disquiet, for I will abide with thee and
    serve thee; and when I have borne thee company during the
    appointed days, I will go with thee to thy dwelling-place and
    thou shalt bring me to some of thy father's servants, with whom I
    may journey to my own country; and God shall requite thee for
    me." He rejoiced in my words and we sat conversing till nightfall
    when I rose and lighted a great wax candle and fed the lamps and
    set on meat and drink and sweetmeats. We ate and drank and sat
    talking till late into the night, when he lay down to sleep and I
    covered him up and went to sleep myself. Next morning, I rose and
    heated a little water, then woke him gently and brought him the
    warm water, with which he washed his face and thanked me, saying,
    "God requite thee with good, O youth! By Allah, if I escape from
    this my danger and from him they call Agib ben Khesib, I will
    make my father reward thee!" "May the day never come on which
    evil shall befall thee," answered I, "and may God appoint my last
    day before thine!" Then I set on food and we ate, and I made
    ready perfumes with which he scented himself. Moreover, I made
    him a backgammon board[FN#41], and we played and ate sweetmeats
    and played again till nightfall when I rose and lighting the
    lamps, set on food; and we ate and sat talking till the night was
    far spent. Then he lay down to sleep and I covered him up and
    went to sleep myself. Thus I did with him, day and night, and the
    love of him got hold upon my heart and I forgot my troubles and
    said to myself, "The astrologers lied; by Allah, I will not kill
    him!" I ceased not to serve him and bear him company and
    entertain him thus, till nine-and-thirty days were passed and we
    came to the morning of the fortieth day, when he rejoiced and
    said to me, "O my brother, the forty days are up to-day, praised
    be God who hath preserved me from death, and this by thy blessing
    and the blessing of thy coming to me, and I pray Him to restore
    thee to thy country! But now, O my brother, I prithee heat me
    some water, that I may wash my body and change my clothes."
    "With all my heart," answered I; and heated water in plenty
    and carrying it in to him, washed his body well with
    lupin-meal[FN#42] and rubbed him down and changed his clothes and
    spread him a high bed, on which he lay down to rest after the
    bath. Then said he, "O my brother, cut me a melon and sweeten it
    with sugar-candy." So I went to the closet and bringing a fine
    melon I found there on a platter, said to him, "O my lord, hast
    thou no knife?" "Here it is," answered he, "on the high shelf at
    my head." So I got up hurriedly and taking the knife, drew it
    from its sheath; but in stepping down backward, my foot slipped
    and I fell heavily on the youth, holding in my hand the knife,
    which hastened to fulfil that which was ordained and entered his
    heart, and he died forthright. When I saw that he was no more and
    that I had indeed killed him, I cried out grievously and buffeted
    my face and tore my clothes, saying, "We are God's and to Him we
    return! There remained for this youth but one day of the period
    of danger that the astrologers had foretold for him, and the
    death of this fair one was to be at my hand! Verily, my life is
    nought but disasters and afflictions! Would he had not asked me
    to cut the melon or would I had died before him! But what God
    decrees cometh to pass." When I was certain that there was no
    life left in him, I rose and ascending the stair, replaced the
    trap-door and covered it with earth. Then I looked out to sea and
    saw the ship cleaving the waters in the direction of the island.
    Whereat I was afeared and said, "They will be here anon and will
    find their son dead and know 'twas I killed him and will slay me
    without fail." So I climbed up into a high tree and hid myself
    among the leaves. Hardly had I done so, when the vessel came to
    an anchor and the slaves landed with the old man and made direct
    for the place, where they cleared away the earth and were
    surprised to find it soft.[FN#43] Then they raised the trap-door
    and going down, found the boy lying dead, clad in clean clothes,
    with his face shining from the bath and the knife sticking in his
    breast. At this sight, they shrieked aloud and wept and buffeted
    their faces and cried out, "Alas! woe worth the day!" whilst the
    old man swooned away and remained so long insensible, that the
    slaves thought he would not survive his son. So they wrapped the
    dead youth in his clothes and carried him up and laid him on the
    ground, covering him with a shroud of silk. Then they addressed
    themselves to transport all that was in the place to the ship,
    and presently the old man revived and coming up after them, saw
    his son laid out, whereupon he fell on the ground and strewed
    dust on his head and buffeted his face and tore his beard; and
    his weeping redoubled, as he hung over his dead son, till he
    swooned away again. After awhile the slaves came back, with a
    silken carpet, and laying the old man thereon, sat down at his
    head. All this time I was in the tree above them, watching them;
    and indeed my heart became hoary before my head, for all the
    grief and affliction I had undergone. The old man ceased not from
    his swoon till nigh upon sundown, when he came to himself and
    looking upon his dead son, recalled what had happened and how
    what he had feared had come to pass: and he buffeted his face and
    head and recited the following verses:

    My heart is cleft in twain for severance of loves; The burning
         tears pour down in torrents from my eye.
    My every wish with him I loved is fled away: What can I do or
         say? what help, what hope have I?
    Would I had never looked upon his lovely face! Alas, the ways on
         me are straitened far and nigh!
    What charm can bring me peace, what drink forgetfulness, Whilst
         in my heart the fire of love burns fierce and high?
    Would that my feet had trod with him the road of death! Then
         should I not, as now, in lonely sorrow sigh.
    O God, that art my hope, have pity upon me! Unite us twain, I
         crave, in Paradise for aye!
    How blessed were we once, whilst one house held us both And
         twinned in pure content our happy lives passed by!
    Till fortune aimed at us the shafts of severance And parted us;
         for who her arrows can defy?
    For lo! the age's pearl, the darling of his folk, The mould of
         every grace, was singled out to die!
    I call him back: "Would God thine hour had never come!" What
         while the case takes speech and doth forestall my cry.
    Which is the speediest way to win to thee, my son! My soul had
         paid the price, if that thy life might buy.
    The sun could not compare with him, for lo! it sets. Nor yet the
         moon that wanes and wasteth from the sky.
    Alas, my grief for thee and my complaint of fate! None can
         console for thee nor aught thy place supply.
    Thy sire is all distraught with languishment for thee; Since
         death upon thee came, his hopes are gone awry.
    Surely, some foe hath cast an envious eye on us: May he who
         wrought this thing his just deserts aby!

    Then he sobbed once and gave up the ghost; whereupon the slaves
    cried out, "Alas, our master!" and strewed dust on their heads
    and wept sore. Then they carried the two bodies to the ship and
    set sail. As soon as they were out of sight, I came down from the
    tree and raising the trap-door, went down into the underground
    dwelling, where the sight of some of the youth's gear recalled
    him to my mind, and I repeated the following verses:

    I see their traces and pine for longing pain; My tears rain down
         on the empty dwelling-place!
    And I pray to God, who willed that we should part, One day to
         grant us reunion, of His grace!

    Then I went up again and spent the day in walking about the
    island, returning to the underground dwelling for the night. Thus
    I lived for a month, during which time I became aware that the
    sea was gradually receding day by day from the western side of
    the island, till by the end of the month, I found that the water
    was become low enough to afford a passage to the mainland. At
    this I rejoiced, making sure of delivery, and fording the little
    water that remained, made shift to reach the mainland, where I
    found great heaps of sand, in which even a camel would sink up to
    the knees. However, I took heart and making my way through the
    sand, espied something shining afar off, as it were a bright-blazing
    fire. So I made towards it, thinking to find succour
    and repeating the following verses:

    It may be Fate at last shall draw its bridle-rein And bring me
         happy chance; for Fortune changes still;
    And things shall happen yet, despite the things fordone, To
         further forth my hopes and bring me to my will.

    When I drew near the supposed fire, behold, it was a palace, with
    a gate of brass, whereon, when the sun shone, it gleamed and
    glistened and showed from afar, as it were a fire. I rejoiced at
    the sight and sat down before the palace gate; but hardly had I
    done so, when there came up ten young men, sumptuously clad and
    all blind of the right eye. They were accompanied by an old man;
    and I marvelled at their appearance and at their being all blind
    of the same eye. They saluted me and questioned me of my
    condition, whereupon I told them all that had befallen me. They
    wondered at my story and carried me into the palace, where I saw
    ten couches, with beds and coverlets of blue stuff, ranged in a
    circle, with a like couch of smaller size in the midst. As we
    entered, each of the young men went up to his own couch, and the
    old man seated himself on the smaller one in the middle. Then
    said they unto me, "O youth, sit down on the ground and enquire
    not of our doings nor of the loss of our right eyes." Presently
    the old man rose and brought each one of the young men and myself
    his portion of meat and drink in separate vessels; and we sat
    talking, they questioning me of my adventures and I replying,
    till the night was far spent. Then said they to the old man, "O
    elder, wilt thou not bring us our ordinary? The time is come."
    "Willingly," answered he, and rose and entering a closet,
    disappeared and presently returned, bearing on his head ten
    dishes, each covered with a piece of blue stuff. He set a dish
    before each youth and lighting ten wax-candles, set one upon each
    dish; after which he uncovered the dishes, and lo, they were full
    of ashes and powdered charcoal and soot. Then all the young men
    tucked up their sleeves and fell to weeping and lamenting; and
    they blackened their faces and rent their clothes and buffeted
    their cheeks and beat their breasts, exclaiming "We were seated
    at our ease, but our impertinent curiosity would not let us be!"
    They ceased not to do thus till near daybreak, when the old man
    rose and heated water for them, and they washed their faces and
    put on fresh clothes. When I saw this, my senses left me for
    wonderment and my heart was troubled and my mind perplexed, for
    their strange behaviour, till I forgot what had befallen me and
    could not refrain from questioning them; so I said to them, "What
    makes you do thus, after our sport and merry-making together?
    Praised be God, ye are whole of wit, yet these are the doings of
    madmen! I conjure you, by all that is most precious to you, tell
    me why you behave thus and how ye came to lose each an eye!" At
    this, they turned to me and said, "O young man, let not thy youth
    beguile thee, but leave thy questioning." Then they slept and I
    with them, and when we awoke, the old man served up food; and
    after we had eaten and the vessels had been removed, we sat
    conversing till nightfall, when the old man rose and lit the
    candles and lamps and set meat and drink before us. We ate and
    sat talking and carousing till midnight, when they said to the
    old man, "Bring us our ordinary, for the hour of sleep is at
    hand." So he rose and brought them the dishes of soot and ashes,
    and they did as they had done on the preceding night. I abode
    with them on this wise for a month, during which time they
    blackened their faces every night, then washed them and changed
    their clothes and my trouble and amazement increased upon me till
    I could neither eat nor drink. At last, I lost patience and said
    to them, "O young men, if ye will not relieve my concern and
    acquaint me with the reason of your blackening your faces and the
    meaning of your words, 'We were seated at our ease, but our
    impertinent curiosity would not let us be,' let me leave you and
    return to my own people and be at rest from seeing these things,
    for as says the proverb,

    'Twere wiser and better your presence to leave, For when the eye
         sees not, the heart does not grieve."

    "O youth," answered they, "we have not concealed this thing from
    thee but in our concern for thee, lest what befell us before thee
    and thou become like unto us." "It avails not," said I; "you must
    tell me." "We give thee good advice," rejoined they; "do thou
    take it and leave questioning us of our case, or thou wilt become
    one-eyed like unto us." But I still persisted in my demand and
    they said, "O youth, if this thing befall thee, we warn thee that
    we will never again receive thee into our company nor let thee
    abide with us." Then they took a ram and slaughtering it, skinned
    it and gave me a knife, saying, "Lie down on the skin and we will
    sew thee up in it and leave thee and go away. Presently there
    will come to thee a bird called the roc[FN#44], that will catch
    thee up in its claws and fly away with thee and set thee down on
    a mountain. As soon as thou feelest it alight with thee, slit the
    skin with the knife and come forth; whereupon the bird will take
    fright at thee and fly away and leave thee. Then rise and fare on
    half a day's journey, till thou comest to a palace rising high
    into the air, builded of khelenj[FN#45] and aloes and sandal-wood
    and plated with red gold, inlaid with all manner emeralds and
    other jewels. There enter and thou wilt attain thy desire. We all
    have been in that place, and this is the cause of the loss of our
    right eyes and the reason why we blacken our faces. Were we to
    tell thee our stories, it would take too much time, for each lost
    his eye by a separate adventure." They then sewed me up in the
    skin and left me on the ground outside the palace; and the roc
    carried me off and set me down on the mountain. I cut open the
    skin and came out, whereupon the bird flew away and I walked on
    till I reached the palace. The door stood open; so I entered
    and found myself in a very wide and goodly hall, as big as a
    tilting-ground, round which were a hundred doors of sandal and
    aloes-wood, plated with red gold and furnished with rings of
    silver. At the upper end of the hall, I saw forty young ladies,
    sumptuously clad and adorned, as they were moons, one could never
    tire of gazing on them: and they all came up to me, saying,
    "Welcome and fair welcome, O my lord! This month past have we
    been expecting the like of thee; and praised be God who hath sent
    us one who is worthy of us and we of him!" Then they made me sit
    down on a high divan and said to me, "From to-day thou art our
    lord and master, and we are thy handmaids; so order us as thou
    wilt." And I marvelled at their case. Presently one of them arose
    and set food before me, and I ate, whilst others heated water and
    washed my hands and feet and changed my clothes, and yet others
    made ready sherbets and gave me to drink; and they were all full
    of joy and delight at my coming. Then they sat down and conversed
    with me till nightfall, when five of them arose and spreading a
    mat, covered it with flowers and fruits and confections in
    profusion and set on wine; and we sat down to drink, while some
    of them sang and others played the lute and psaltery and
    recorders and other instruments. So the cup went round amongst us
    and such gladness possessed me that I forgot all the cares of the
    world and said, "This is indeed life, but that it is fleeting."
    We ceased not to drink and make merry till the night was far
    spent and we were warm with wine, when they said to me, "O our
    lord, choose from amongst us one who shall be thy bedfellow this
    night and not lie with thee again till forty days be past." So I
    chose a girl fair of face, with liquid black eyes and jetty hair,
    slightly parted teeth[FN#46] and joining eyebrows, perfect in
    shape and form, as she were a palm-sapling or a stalk of sweet
    basil; such an one as troubles the heart and bewilders the wit,
    even as saith of her the poet:

    'Twere vain to liken her unto the tender branch, And out on who
         compares her form to the gazelle!
    Whence should gazelles indeed her shape's perfection get Or yet
         her honeyed lips so sweet to taste and smell,
    Or those great eyes of hers, so dire to those who love, That bind
         their victims fast in passion's fatal spell?
    I dote on her with all the folly of a child. What wonder if he
         turn a child who loves too well!

    And I repeated to her the following verses:

    My eyes to gaze on aught but thy grace disdain And none but thou
         in my thought shall ever reign.
    The love of thee is my sole concern, my fair; In love of thee, I
         will die and rise again.

    So I lay with her that night, never knew I a fairer, and when it
    was morning, the ladies carried me to the bath and washed me and
    clad me in rich clothes. Then they served up food and we ate and
    drank, and the cup went round amongst us till the night, when I
    chose from among them one who was fair to look upon and soft of
    sides, such an one as the poet describes, when he says:

    I saw upon her breast two caskets snowy-white, Musk-sealed; she
         doth forbid to lovers their delight.
    She guards them with the darts that glitter from her eyes; And
         those who would them press, her arrowy glances smite.

    I passed a most delightful night with her; and to make a long
    story short, I led the goodliest life with them, eating and
    drinking and carousing and every night taking one or other of
    them to my bed, for a whole year, at the end of which time they
    came in to me in tears and fell to bidding me farewell and
    clinging to me, weeping and crying out; whereat I marvelled and
    said to them, "What ails you? Indeed you break my heart." "Would
    we had never known thee!" answered they. "We have companied with
    many men, but never saw we a pleasanter or more courteous than
    thou: and now we must part from thee. Yet it rests with thee to
    see us again, and if thou hearken to us, we need never be parted:
    but our hearts forebode us that thou will not hearken to us; and
    this is the cause of our weeping" "Tell me how the case stands,"
    said I; and they answered, "Know that we are the daughters of
    kings, who have lived here together for years past, and once in
    every year we are absent for forty days; then we return and abide
    here for the rest of the year, eating and drinking and making
    merry. We are now about to depart according to our custom, and we
    fear lest thou disobey our injunctions in our absence, in which
    case we shall never see thee again; but if thou do as we bid
    thee, all will yet be well. Take these keys: they are those of
    the hundred apartments of the palace, each of which contains what
    will suffice thee for a day's entertainment. Ninety-and-nine of
    these thou mayst open and take thy pleasure therein, but beware
    lest thou open the hundredth, that which has a door of red gold;
    for therein is that which will bring about a separation between
    us and thee." Quoth I, "I will assuredly not open the hundredth
    door, if therein be separation from you." Then one of them came
    up to me and embraced me and repeated the following verses:

    If but the days once more our severed loves unite, If but my eyes
         once more be gladdened by thy sight,
    Then shall the face of Time smile after many a frown, And I will
         pardon Fate for all its past despite.

    And I repeated the following:

    When she drew near to bid farewell, upon our parting day, Whilst
         on her heart the double stroke of love and longing smote,
    She wept pure pearls, and eke mine eyes did rain cornelians
         forth; And lo, they all combined and made a necklace for her
         throat!

    When I saw her weeping, I said, "By Allah, I will never open the
    hundredth door!" Then they bade me farewell and departed, leaving
    me alone in the palace. When the evening drew near, I opened the
    first door and found myself in an orchard, full of blooming
    trees, laden with ripe fruit, and the air resounded with the loud
    singing of birds and the ripple of running waters. The sight
    brought solace to my soul, and I entered and walked among the
    trees, inhaling the odours of the flowers and listening to the
    warble of the birds, that sang the praises of God the One, the
    Almighty. I looked upon the apple, whose colour is parcel red and
    parcel yellow, as says the poet:

    The apple in itself two colours doth unite, The loved one's cheek
         of red, and yellow of despite.

    Then I looked upon the quince and inhaled its fragrance that puts
    musk and ambergris to shame, even as says the poet:

    The quince contains all pleasant things that can delight mankind,
         Wherefore above all fruits that be its virtues are renowned.
    Its taste is as the taste of wine, its breath the scent of musk;
         Its hue is that of virgin gold, its shape the full moon's
         round.

    Thence I passed to the pear, whose taste surpasses rose-water and
    sugar, and the plum, whose beauty delights the eye, as it were a
    polished ruby. When I had taken my fill of looking on the place,
    I went and locked the door again. Next day, I opened the second
    door and found myself in a great pleasaunce, set with many
    palm-trees and watered by a running stream, whose borders were
    decked with bushes of rose and jessamine and henna[FN#47] and
    camomile and marjoram and sweetbriar and carpeted with narcissus
    and ox-eye and violets and lilies and gillyflowers. The breeze
    fluttered over all these sweet-smelling plants and scattered
    their scents right and left, possessing me with complete delight.
    I took my pleasure in the place awhile, and my chagrin was
    somewhat lightened. Then I went out and locked the door and
    opening the third door, found therein a great hall paved with
    vari-coloured marbles and other precious stones and hung with
    cages of sandal and aloes wood, full of singing-birds, such as
    the thousand-voiced nightingale[FN#48] and the cushat and the
    blackbird and the turtle-dove and the Nubian warbler. My heart
    was ravished by the song of the birds and I forgot my cares and
    slept in the aviary till the morning. Then I opened the fourth
    door and saw a great hall, with forty cabinets ranged on either
    side. The doors of the latter stood open; so I entered and found
    them full of pearls and rubies and chrysolites and beryls and
    emeralds and corals and carbuncles and all manner of precious
    stones and jewels of gold and silver, such as the tongue fails to
    describe. I was amazed at what I saw and said in myself
    "Methinks, if all the kings of the earth joined together they
    could not produce the like of these treasures!" And my heart
    dilated and I exclaimed, "Now am I king of my time, for all these
    riches are mine by the favour of God, and I have forty young
    ladies under my hand, nor is there any with them but myself!" In
    short, I passed nine-and-thirty days after this fashion,
    exploring the riches of the place, till I had opened all the
    doors, except that which the princesses had charged me not to
    open, but my thoughts ran ever on this latter and Satan urged me,
    for my ruin, to open it, nor had I patience to forbear; though
    there remained but one day of the appointed time. So I opened the
    hundredth door, that which was plated with red gold, and was met
    by a perfume, whose like I had never before smelt and which was
    of so subtle and penetrating a quality, that it invaded my head
    and I fell down, as if intoxicated, and lay awhile unconscious.
    Then I revived and took heart and entering, found myself in a
    place strewn with saffron and blazing with light shed by lamps of
    gold and candles, that diffused a scent of musk and aloes. In the
    midst stood two great censers, full of burning aloes wood and
    ambergris and other perfumes, and the place was full of their
    fragrance. Presently I espied a horse, black as night at its
    darkest, girt and bridled and saddled with red gold, standing
    before two mangers of white crystal, one full of winnowed sesame
    and the other of rose-water flavoured with musk. When I saw this,
    I was amazed and said to myself, "Surely this horse must be of
    extraordinary value!" and the devil tempted me, so that I took
    him out and mounted him, but he would not stir. So I spurred him
    with my heel, but he did not move; and I took a. switch and
    struck him with it. When he felt the blow, he gave a neigh like
    the roaring thunder, and spreading a pair of wings flew up with
    me high into the air. After awhile, he descended and set me down
    on the terrace of a palace; then, shaking me off his back, he
    smote me on the face with his tail and struck out my right eye
    and flew away, leaving me there. I went down into the palace and
    found myself again among the ten one-eyed youths, who exclaimed,
    when they saw me, "An ill welcome to thee!" Quoth I, "Behold, I
    am become like unto you, and now I would have you give me a dish
    of soot, that I may blacken my face and admit me to your
    company." "By Allah," answered they, "thou shalt not abide with
    us! Depart hence!" And they drove me away. I was grieved at their
    rejection of me and went out from them, mourning-hearted and
    tearful-eyed, saying to myself, "Of a truth, I was sitting at my
    ease, but my impertinent curiosity would not let me be." Then I
    shaved my beard and eyebrows and renouncing the world, became a
    Calender and wandered about God's earth, till by His blessing, I
    arrived at Baghdad in safety this evening and met with these two
    other Calenders standing bewildered. So I saluted them, saying,
    "I am a stranger;" to which they replied, "We also are strangers."
    And, as it chanced, we were all Calenders and each blind of the
    right eye. This, then, O my lady, is my story and the manner of
    the shaving of my face and the loss of my eye.' Quoth the
    mistress of the house, 'Begone about thy business.' But he said,
    'By Allah, I will not go, till I hear the others' stories!' Then
    she turned to the Khalif and his companions and said, 'Give me an
    account of yourselves.' So Jaafer came forward and repeated the
    story he had told the portress; whereupon the lady said, 'I
    pardon you all: go your ways.' So they all went out; and when
    they reached the street the Khalif said to the Calenders, 'O folk,
    whither are you bound now, seeing that it is not yet day?' 'By
    Allah, O my lord,' answered they, 'we know not where to go!'
    'Then come and pass the rest of the night with us,' said the
    Khalif, and turning to Jaafer, said to him, 'Take them home
    with thee and to-morrow bring them before me, that we may cause
    their adventures to be recorded.' Jaafer did as the Khalif
    bade him, and the latter returned to his palace. Sleep did not
    visit him that night, but he lay awake, pondering the adventures
    of the three Calenders and full of impatience to know the history
    of the two ladies and the black bitches; and no sooner had the
    day dawned than he went out and sat down on his chair of estate.
    Then his courtiers presented themselves and withdrew, whereupon
    he turned to Jaafer and said to him, 'Bring me the three ladies
    and the bitches and the Calenders, and make haste.' So Jaafer
    went out and brought them all before him and seated the ladies
    behind a curtain; then turned to them and said, speaking for the
    Khalif, 'O women, we pardon you your rough usage of us, in
    consideration of your previous kindness and for that ye knew us
    not: and now I would have you to know that you are in the
    presence of the fifth of the sons of Abbas, the Commander of the
    Faithful Haroun er Reshid, son of El Mehdi Mohammed, son of Abou
    Jaafer el Mensour. So do ye acquaint him with your stories and
    tell him nothing but the truth.' When the ladies heard Jaafer's
    speech, the eldest came forward and said, 'O Commander of the
    Faithful, my story is one which, were it graven with needles on
    the corners of the eye, would serve for an example to those who
    can profit by example and a warning to those who can take
    warning. And it is that




                        The Eldest Lady's Story.



    These two bitches are my elder sisters by the same mother and
    father, and these two others, she on whom are the marks of blows
    and the cateress, are my sisters by another mother. When my
    father died, each took her portion of the heritage, and after
    awhile my mother died also and left me and my sisters-german a
    thousand dinars each. After awhile my two sisters married and
    lived with their husbands for a time; then the latter bought
    merchandise with their wives' money and set out on their travels,
    and I heard no more of them for five years: for their husbands
    spent their wives' fortunes and became bankrupt and deserted them
    in a foreign land. Presently, my eldest sister came back to me in
    the guise of a beggar, with tattered clothes and a dirty old
    veil, and altogether in so sorry a plight, that at first I knew
    her not; but when I recognised her, I asked her how she came in
    such a state. "O my sister," answered she, "talking profits not
    now: the pen[FN#49] hath written what was decreed." Then I sent
    her to the bath and clothed her in a suit of my own and entreated
    her kindly and said to her, "O my sister, thou standest to me in
    the stead of my father and mother; and God has blessed me in the
    share of the inheritance that fell to me and prospered it to me,
    so that I am now in flourishing case; and thou shalt share with
    me in my increase." So she abode with me a whole year, during
    which time we were much concerned to know what was become of our
    other sister. At last, she too came back to me, in a worse plight
    than the other, and I dealt still more kindly by her than by the
    first, and each of them had a share of my substance. After
    awhile, they said to me, "O sister, we desire to marry again, for
    we can no longer endure to live without husbands." "O my dear
    ones[FN#50]," answered I, "there is no good in marriage, for
    now-a-days good men are rare to find; nor do I see the advantage
    of marrying again, since ye have already made trial of matrimony
    and it has profited you nothing." They would not listen to me,
    but married without my consent; nevertheless I equipped them and
    portioned them with my own money and they went away with their
    husbands. After a little, the latter cheated them of all they had
    and went away and left them. Then they came to me, in abject
    case, and made their excuses to me, saying, "Do not reproach us;
    thou art younger than we, but riper of wit, so take us as thy
    handmaids, that we may eat our mouthful; and we will never again
    speak of marriage." Quoth I, "Ye are welcome, O my sisters: there
    is nothing dearer to me than you." And I took them in and
    redoubled in kindness to them. We lived thus for a whole year, at
    the end of which time I was minded to travel. So I fitted out a
    great ship at Bassora and loaded her with merchandise and victual
    and other necessaries for a voyage, and said to my sisters, "Will
    you come with me or abide at home till I return?" "We will go
    with thee," answered they, "for we cannot endure to be parted
    from thee." So I took them and set sail, after dividing my money
    into two parts, one of which I deposited with a trusty person,
    saying, "Maybe ill-hap shall betide the ship and yet we remain
    alive; but now, if we return, we shall find what will be of
    service to us." We sailed days and nights, till the captain
    missed the true course and the ship went astray with us and
    entered a sea other than that we aimed at. We knew not of this
    awhile and the wind blew fair for us ten days, at the end of
    which time, the watch went up to the mast-head, to look out, and
    cried, "Good news!" Then he came down, rejoicing, and said to us,
    "I see a city in the distance as it were a dove." At this we
    rejoiced and before an hour of the day was past, the city
    appeared to us afar off: and we said to the captain, "What is the
    name of yonder city?" "By Allah!" replied he, "I know not, for I
    never saw it before nor have I ever sailed this sea in my life;
    but since the affair has issued in safety, ye have nought to do
    but to land your goods, and if ye find a market, sell and buy and
    barter, as the occasion serves; if not, we will rest here two
    days, re-victual and depart." So we entered the harbour and the
    captain landed and was absent awhile, after which he returned and
    said to us, "Arise, go up into the city and marvel at God's
    dealings with His creatures and seek to be preserved from His
    wrath." So we landed and going up to the city, saw at the gate
    men with staves in their hands; but when we drew near them,
    behold, they had been stricken by the wrath of God and were
    become stones. Then we entered the city and found all its in
    habitants changed into black stones: there was not a living soul
    therein, no, not a blower of the fire. At this we were amazed and
    passed on through the bazaars, where we found all the goods and
    gold and silver left lying in their places, and rejoiced and
    said, "Doubtless, there is some mystery in all this." Then we
    dispersed about the streets of the city and each busied himself
    with making prize of the wealth and stuffs lying about and took
    no heed of his comrades, whilst I went up to the citadel and
    found it goodly of fashion. I entered the king's palace and saw
    all the vessels of gold and silver and the king himself seated in
    the midst of his officers and grandees, clad in raiment such as
    confounded the wit. The throne on which he sat was encrusted with
    pearls and jewels and his robes were of cloth of gold, adorned
    with all manner jewels, that shone like stars. Around him stood
    fifty white slaves, with drawn swords in their hands and clad in
    divers sorts of silken stuffs; but when I drew near to them,
    behold, they were all black stones. My understanding was
    confounded at the sight, but I went on and came to the saloon of
    the harem, which I found hung with tapestries of gold-striped
    silk and spread with carpets of the same, embroidered with
    flowers of gold. Here I saw the queen lying, arrayed in a robe
    covered with fresh pearls as big as hazel-nuts and crowned with a
    diadem set with all manner jewels. Her neck was covered with
    collars and necklaces and all her clothes and ornaments were
    unchanged, but she herself had been smitten of God and was become
    black stone. Presently I spied an open door, with seven steps
    leading to it, and going up, found myself in a place paved with
    marble and hung and carpeted with gold-embroidered stuffs. At the
    upper end stood an alcove with drawn curtains and I saw a light
    issuing thence. So I went up to the alcove and found therein a
    couch of juniper wood, inlaid with pearls and diamonds and set
    with bosses of emeralds, with silken coverings of bewildering
    richness and curtains of the same, looped up with pearls. At the
    head of the bed stood two lighted candles and in the midst of the
    alcove was a little stool, on which lay a jewel, the size of a
    goose's egg, that shone like a lamp and lighted the whole place;
    but there was no one to be seen. When I saw these things, I
    wondered and said, "Some one must have lighted these candles."
    Then I went out and came to the kitchen and thence to the buttery
    and the king's treasuries and continued to explore the palace and
    to go from place to place; and for wonderment at what I saw, I
    forgot myself and wandered on, lost in thought, till the night
    overtook me. Then I would have gone out, but lost my way and
    could not find the gate; so I returned to the alcove, where I lay
    down on the bed and covering myself with a quilt, repeated
    somewhat of the Koran and would have slept, but could not, for
    restlessness possessed me. In the middle of the night, I heard a
    low sweet voice reciting the Koran, whereat I rejoiced and
    rising, followed the sound, till it led me to a chamber with the
    door ajar. I looked through the chink of the door and saw an
    oratory, wherein was a prayer-niche[FN#51], with candles burning
    and lamps hanging from the ceiling. In the midst was spread a
    prayer-carpet, on which sat a handsome youth, with a copy of the
    Koran open before him, from which he was reading. I wondered to
    see him alone alive of all the people of the city and entered and
    saluted him; whereupon he raised his eyes and returned my
    salutation. Then said I, "I implore thee, by the truth of that
    thou readest from the book of God, to answer me my questions." He
    looked at me with a smile and said, "O handmaid of God, tell me
    first how thou camest hither, and I will tell thee what has
    befallen me and the people of this city and the manner of my
    preservation." So I told him my story, at which he marvelled, and
    questioned him of the people of the city. Quoth he, "Have
    patience with me a little, O my sister!" and shutting the Koran,
    laid it in a bag of satin. Then he made me sit down by his side,
    and I looked at him and behold, he was like the moon at its full,
    bright-faced, soft-sided, well-shaped and fair to look upon, as
    he were a figure of sugar,[FN#52] even as says the poet of the
    like of him:

    A seer of the stars one night was reading the book of the skies,
         When lo, in his scroll he saw a lovely youth arise.
    Saturn had dyed his hair the hue of the raven's wing And
         sprinkled upon his face the musk of Paradise[FN#53]:
    The rose of his cheeks from Mars its ruddy colour drew, And the
         Archer winged the shafts that darted from his eyes.
    Hermes dowered the youth with his own mercurial wit, And the
         Great Bear warded off the baleful glance of spies.
    Wonder seized on the sage at the sight of the lovely boy, For the
         full moon kissed the earth before him, servant-wise.
    And indeed God the Most High had clad him in the garment of
         perfection and broidered it with the shining fringes of his
         cheeks, even as says the poet of him:
    By the perfume of his eyelids and his slender waist I swear, By
         the arrows that he feathers with the witchery of his air,
    By his sides so soft and tender and his glances bright and keen,
         By the whiteness of his forehead and the blackness of his
         hair,
    By his arched imperious eyebrows, chasing slumber from my eyes,
         With their yeas and noes that hold me 'twixt rejoicing and
         despair,
    By the myrtle of his whiskers and the roses of his cheeks, By his
         lips' incarnate rubies and his teeth's fine pearls and rare,
    By his neck and by its beauty, by the softness of his breast And
         the pair of twin pomegranates that my eyes discover there,
    By his heavy hips that tremble, both in motion and repose, And
         the slender waist above them, all too slim their weight to
         bear,
    By his skin's unsullied satin and the quickness of his spright,
         By the matchless combination in his form of all things fair,
    By his hand's perennial bounty and his true and trusty speech, By
         the stars that smile upon him, favouring and debonair,
    Lo, the smell of musk none other than his very fragrance is, And
         the ambergris's perfume breathes around him everywhere.
    Yea, the sun in all its splendour cannot with his grace compare,
         Seeming but a shining fragment that he from his nail doth
         pare.

    I stole a look at him, which cost me a thousand sighs, for my
    heart was taken with his love, and I said to him, "O my lord,
    tell me what I asked thee." "I hear and obey," answered he.
    "Know, O handmaid of God, that this city was the capital of my
    father, who is the king thou sawest on the throne, changed to a
    black stone, and as for the queen on the bed, she was my mother;
    and they and all the people of the city were Magians, worshipping
    the fire, instead of the All-powerful King, and swearing by the
    fire and the light and the shade and the heat and the revolving
    sphere. My father had no child, till I was vouchsafed to him in
    his old age, and he reared me and I grew up and flourished. Now,
    as my good star would have it, there was with us an old woman
    stricken in years, who was at heart a Muslim, believing in God
    and His prophet, but conforming outwardly to the religion of my
    people. My father had confidence in her, supposing her to be of
    his own belief, and showed her exceeding favour, for that he knew
    her to be trusty and virtuous; so when I grew to a fitting age,
    he committed me to her charge, saying, 'Take him and do thy best
    to give him a good education and teach him the things of our
    faith.' So she took me and taught me the tenets of Islam and the
    ordinances of ablution and prayer and made me learn the Koran by
    heart, bidding me worship none but God the Most High and charging
    me to keep my faith secret from my father, lest he should kill
    me. So I hid it from him, and I abode thus till, in a little
    while, the old woman died and the people of the city redoubled in
    their impiety and frowardness and in the error of their ways. One
    day, they heard a voice from on high, proclaiming aloud, with a
    noise like the resounding thunder, so that all heard it far and
    near, and saying, 'O people of the city, turn from your worship
    of the fire and serve God the Compassionate King!' At this, fear
    fell on the people of the city and they crowded to my father and
    said to him; 'What is this awful voice that we have heard and
    that has confounded us with the excess of its terror?' But
    he said, 'Let not a voice fright you nor turn you from your
    faith.' Their hearts inclined to his word and they ceased not to
    worship the fire, but redoubled in their frowardness, till the
    anniversary of the day on which they had heard the supernatural
    voice. When they heard it anew, and so again a third time at the
    end of the second year. Still they persisted in their evil ways,
    till one day, at break of dawn, judgment descended on them and
    wrath from heaven, and they were all turned into black stones,
    they and their beasts and cattle; and none was spared, save
    myself. From that day to this, I have remained as thou seest me,
    occupying myself with prayer and fasting and reading the Koran
    aloud; and indeed I am grown weary of solitude, having none to
    bear me company." Then said I to him (and indeed he had won my
    heart), "O youth, wilt thou go with me to the city of Baghdad and
    foregather with men of learning and theologians and grow in
    wisdom and understanding and knowledge of the Law? If so, I will
    be thy handmaid, albeit I am head of my family and mistress over
    men and slaves and servants. I have here a ship laden with
    merchandise; and indeed it was providence drove us to this city,
    that I might come to the knowledge of these things, for it was
    fated that we should meet." And I ceased not to speak him fair
    and persuade him, till he consented to go with me, and I passed
    the night at his feet, beside myself for joy. When it was day, we
    repaired to the treasuries and took thence what was little of
    weight and great of value; then went down into the town, where we
    met the slaves and the captain seeking for me. When they saw me,
    they rejoiced and I told them all I had seen and related to them
    the story of the young man and of the curse that had fallen on
    the people of the city. At this they wondered: but when my
    sisters saw me with the prince, they envied me on his account and
    were enraged and plotted mischief against me in their hearts.
    Then we took ship again, beside ourselves for joy in the booty we
    had gotten, though the most of my joy was in the prince, and
    waited till the wind blew fair for us, when we set sail and
    departed. As we sat talking, my sisters said to me, "O sister,
    what wilt thou do with this handsome young man?" "I purpose to
    make him my husband," answered I; and I turned to the prince and
    said, "O my lord, I have that to propose to thee, in which I will
    not have thee cross me: and it is that, when we reach Baghdad, I
    will give myself to thee as a handmaid in the way of marriage,
    and thou shalt be my husband and I thy wife." Quoth he, "I hear
    and obey; thou art my lady and my mistress, and whatever thou
    dost, I will not cross thee." Then I turned to my sisters and
    said to them, "This young man suffices me; and those who have
    gotten aught, it is theirs." "Thou sayest well," replied they;
    but in their hearts they purposed me evil. We sailed on with a
    fair wind, till we left the sea of peril and came into safe
    waters, and in a few days, we came in sight of the walls of
    Bassora, even as night overtook us. My sisters waited till the
    prince and I were asleep, when they took us up, bed and all, and
    threw us into the sea. The prince, who could not swim, was
    drowned and God wrote him of the company of the martyrs. As for
    me, would I had been drowned with him! But God decreed that I
    should be of the saved; so He threw in my way a piece of wood and
    I got astride of it, and the waters tossed me about till they
    cast me up on an island. I landed and walked about the island the
    rest of the night, and when the day broke, I saw a footway,
    leading to the mainland. By this time, the sun had risen; so I
    dried my clothes in its rays and ate of the fruits of the island
    and drank of its waters. Then I set out and fared on till I
    reached the mainland and found myself but two hours' distant from
    the city. So I sat down to rest and presently I saw a great
    serpent, the bigness of a palm-tree, come fleeing towards me,
    with all her might, whilst her tongue for weariness hung from her
    mouth a span's length and swept the dust as she went. She was
    pursued by a dragon, as long and thin as a spear, which presently
    overtook her and seized her by the tail whereat the tears
    streamed from her eyes and she wriggled from side to side. I took
    pity on her and catching up a stone, threw it at the dragon's
    head and killed him on the spot. Then the serpent spread a pair
    of wings and flew away out of sight, leaving me wondering. Now I
    was tired and drowsiness overcoming me, I slept where I was for
    awhile. When I awoke, I found a damsel sitting at my feet,
    rubbing them, and with her, two black bitches, and I was ashamed
    before her; so I sat up and said to her, "O my sister, who art
    thou?" "How quickly thou hast forgotten me!" answered she. "I am
    the serpent, whom thou didst deliver from my enemy by killing
    him, for I am a Jinniyeh[FN#54] and the dragon was a genie; and I
    was only saved from him by thy kindness. As soon as thou hadst
    done me this service, I flew on the wind to your ship and
    transported all that was therein to thy house. Then I sank the
    vessel and changed thy sisters into two black bitches, for I know
    all that has passed between thee and them: but as for the young
    man, he is drowned." So saying, she flew up with me and the two
    bitches and presently set us down on the roof of my house, where
    I found all the goods that were in my ship, nor was aught
    missing. Then she said to me, "By that which is written on the
    seal of our lord Solomon (on whom be peace!) except thou give
    each of these bitches three hundred lashes every day, I will come
    and make thee like unto them." "I hear and obey," answered I; and
    since then I have never failed to beat them thus, O Commander of
    the Faithful, pitying them the while; and they know it is no
    fault of mine that they are beaten and accept my excuse. And this
    is my story.' The Khalif marvelled at her story and said to the
    portress, 'And thou, how camest thou by the weals on thy body?'
    'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered she:




                         Story of the Portress.



    'My father died and left me great wealth, and soon after his
    death I married one of the richest men of Baghdad. At the end of
    a year he too died and I inherited from him fourscore thousand
    dinars, being my lawful share of his property; so that I became
    passing rich and the report of my wealth spread abroad, for I got
    me half a score suits of clothes, each worth a thousand dinars.
    One day, as I was sitting alone, there came in to me an old woman
    with sunken cheeks and worn eyebrows, bleared eyes and broken
    teeth, blotched face and bald head, grizzled hair and bent and
    mangy body, running nose and sallow complexion, even as says the
    poet of the like of her:

    A right pernicious hag! Unshriven be her sins, Nor let her mercy
         find what time she comes to die!
    So full of wile she is, that with a single thread Of spider's
         silk she'd curb a thousand mules that shy.

    She saluted me and kissing the ground before me, said, "I have an
    orphan daughter whose wedding and unveiling[FN#55] I celebrate
    to-night. We are strangers in the city and know none of its
    inhabitants, and verily our hearts are broken so do thou earn
    through us a recompense and reward in the world to come by being
    present at her unveiling. When the ladies of the city hear that
    thou art to be present, they also will attend, and so wilt thou
    bring healing to her spirit, for now she is broken-hearted and
    has none to look to but God the Most High." Then she wept and
    kissed my feet, repeating the following verses:

    Thy presence honoureth us, and we Confess thy magnanimity:
    If thou forsake us, there is none Can stand to us in stead of
         thee.

    I was moved to pity for her and said, "I hear and obey; and God
    willing, I will do more than this for her, for she shall not be
    unveiled but in my clothes and ornaments and jewellery." At this
    the old woman rejoiced and fell at my feet and kissed them,
    saying, "God requite thee with good and gladden thy heart as thou
    hast gladdened mine! But, O my lady, do not trouble thyself now,
    but be ready against the evening, when I will come and fetch
    thee." So saying, she kissed my hand and went away, whilst I
    attired myself and made my preparations. At the appointed time,
    the old woman returned, smiling, and kissed my hand, saying,
    "O my mistress, the most part of the ladies of the city are
    assembled; and I told them that thou hadst promised to be
    present, whereat they rejoiced and they are now awaiting thee and
    are looking eagerly for thy coming." So I veiled myself and taking
    my serving-maids with me, followed the old woman, till we came to
    a street swept and watered, through which blew a pleasant breeze.
    Here she stopped at a handsome portico vaulted with marble and
    leading to a palace that rose from the ground and took hold upon
    the clouds. The gateway was hung with a black curtain and lighted
    by a lamp of gold curiously wrought; and on the door were written
    the following verses:

    I am a dwelling, builded for delight; My time is still for
         joyance day and night.
    Right in my midst a springing fountain wells, Whose waters banish
         anguish and despite,
    Whose marge with rose, narcissus, camomile, Anemone and myrtle,
         is bedight.

    The old woman knocked at the gate, which opened; and we entered a
    carpeted vestibule hung with lighted lamps and candles and
    adorned with pendants of precious stones and minerals. Through
    this we passed into a saloon, whose like is not to be found in
    the world, hung and carpeted with silken stuffs and lighted by
    hanging lamps and wax candles in rows. At the upper end stood a
    couch of juniper-wood, set with pearls and jewels and canopied
    with curtains of satin, looped up with pearls. Hardly had I taken
    note of all this, when there came out from the alcove a young
    lady more perfect than the moon at its full, with a forehead
    brilliant as the morning, when it shines forth, even as says the
    poet:

    Upon the imperial necks she walks, a loveling bright, For
         bride-chambers of kings and emperors bedight.
    The blossom of her cheek is red as dragon's blood, And all her
         face is flowered with roses red and white.
    Slender and sleepy-eyed and languorous of gait, All manner
         loveliness is in her sweetest sight.
    The locks upon her brow are like a troubled night, From out of
         which there shines a morning of delight.

    She came down from the dais and said to me, "Welcome, a thousand
    times welcome to the dear and illustrious sister!" and she
    recited the following verses:

    If the house knew who visits it, it would indeed rejoice And
         stoop to kiss the happy place whereon her feet have stood;
    And in the voice with which the case, though mute, yet speaks,
         exclaim, "Welcome and many a welcome to the generous and
         good!"

    Then she sat down and said to me, "O my sister, I have a brother,
    who is handsomer than I; and he saw thee at certain festivals and
    assemblies and fell passionately in love with thee, for that thou
    art possessed of beauty and grace beyond thy share. He heard that
    thou wast thine own mistress, even as he also is the head of his
    family, and wished to make thine acquaintance; wherefore he used
    this device to bring thee in company with me; for he desires to
    marry thee according to the law of God and His prophet, and there
    is no shame in what is lawful." When I heard what she said, I
    bethought me that I was fairly entrapped and answered, "I hear
    and obey." At this she was glad and clapped her hands, whereupon
    a door opened and out came the handsomest of young men, elegantly
    dressed and perfect in beauty and symmetry and winning grace,
    with eyebrows like a bended bow and eyes that ravished hearts
    with lawful enchantments, even as says a poet, describing the
    like of him:

    His face is like unto the new moon's face With signs[FN#56], like
         pearls, of fortune and of grace.

    And God bless him who said:

    He hath indeed been blest with beauty and with grace, And blest
         be He who shaped and fashioned forth his face!
    All rarest charms that be unite to make him fair, His witching
         loveliness distracts the human race.
    Beauty itself hath set these words upon his brow, "Except this
         youth there's none that's fair in any place."

    When I looked at him, my heart inclined to him and I loved him;
    and he sat down by me and talked with me awhile. Presently the
    young lady clapped her hands a second time, and behold, a side
    door opened and there came out a Cadi and four witnesses, who
    saluted and sitting down, drew up the contract of marriage
    between me and the young man and retired. Then he turned to me
    and said, "May our night be blessed! O my mistress, I have a
    condition to lay on thee." Quoth I, "O my lord, what is it?"
    Whereupon he rose and fetching a copy of the Koran, said to me,
    "Swear to me that thou wilt never look upon another man than
    myself, nor incline to him." I did as he wished and he rejoiced
    with an exceeding joy and embraced me and my whole heart was
    taken with love of him. Presently they set food before us and we
    ate and drank, till we were satisfied and night closed in upon
    us. Then he took me and went to bed with me and ceased not to
    kiss and embrace me till the morning. I lived with him in all
    delight and happiness for a month, at the end of which time I
    asked his leave to go to the bazaar to buy certain stuffs that I
    wanted, and he gave me leave. So I veiled myself and taking with
    me the old woman and a serving-maid, went to the bazaar, where I
    sat down in the shop of a young merchant, whom the old woman knew
    and had recommended to me, saying, "The father of this young man
    died, when he was a boy, and left him great wealth: he has great
    store of goods, and thou wilt find what thou seekest with him,
    for none in the bazaar has finer stuffs than he." So she said to
    him, "Show this lady thy finest stuffs." And he answered, "I hear
    and obey." Then she began to sound his praises; but I said, "I
    have no concern with thy praises of him; all I want is to buy
    what I need of him and return home." So he brought me what I
    sought, and I offered him the price, but he refused to take it,
    saying, "It is a guest-gift to thee on the occasion of thy visit
    to me this day." Then I said to the old woman, "If he will not
    take the money, give him back the stuff." "By Allah!" said he, "I
    will take nothing from thee! I make thee a present of it all, in
    return for one kiss; for that is more precious to me than all
    that is in my shop." Quoth the old woman, "What will a kiss
    profit thee?" Then she said to me, "O my daughter, thou hearest
    what this young man says. What harm will it do thee, if he take
    from thee a kiss and thou get the stuffs for nothing?" "Dost thou
    not know," answered I, "that I am bound by an oath?" But she
    said, "Hold thy tongue and let him kiss thee, and thou shalt keep
    thy money and no harm shall betide thee." And she ceased not to
    persuade me till I put my head into the noose and consented. So I
    veiled my eyes and held up the edge of my veil between me and the
    street, that the passers-by might not see me; and he put his
    mouth to my cheek under the veil. But, instead of kissing me, he
    bit me so hard that he tore the flesh of my cheek, and I swooned
    away. The old woman took me in her arms and when I came to
    myself, I found the shop shut up and her lamenting over me and
    saying, "Thank God it was no worse!" Then she said to me, "Come,
    take courage and let us go home, lest the thing get wind and thou
    be disgraced. When thou returnest, do thou feign sickness and lie
    down and cover thyself up, and I will bring thee a remedy that
    will soon heal the wound." So, after awhile, I arose, full of
    fear and anxiety, and went little by little, till I came to the
    house, where I lay down and gave out that I was ill. When it was
    night, my husband came in to me and said, "O my lady, what has
    befallen thee in this excursion?" Quoth I, "I am not well: I have
    a pain in my head." Then he lighted a candle and drew near and
    looked at me and said, "What is that wound on thy cheek, in the
    soft part?" Said I, "When I went out to-day to buy stuffs, with
    thy leave, a camel laden with firewood jostled me and the end of
    one of the pieces of wood tore my veil and wounded my cheek, as
    thou seest; for indeed the ways are strait in this city."
    "To-morrow," rejoined he, "I will go to the governor and speak to
    him, that he may hang every firewood-seller in the city." "God on
    thee," cried I, "do not burden thy conscience with such a sin
    against any one! The truth is that I was riding on an ass, and it
    stumbled and threw me down, and my cheek fell on a piece of
    glass, which wounded it." "Then," said he, "to morrow I will go
    to Jaafer the Barmecide and tell him the case, and he will kill
    every ass in the city." "Wilt thou ruin all the folk on my
    account," said I, "when this that befell me was decreed of God?"
    "There is no help for it," answered he, and springing to his
    feet, plied me with questions and pressed me, till I was
    frightened and stammered in my speech, so that he guessed how the
    case stood and exclaimed, "Thou hast been false to thine oath!"
    Then he gave a great cry, whereupon a door opened and in came
    seven black slaves, whom he commanded to drag me from my bed and
    throw me down in the middle of the room. Moreover, he made one
    take me by the shoulders and sit upon my head and another sit on
    my knees and hold my feet and giving a third a naked sword, said
    to him, "Strike her, O Saad, and cut her in twain and let each
    take half and throw it into the Tigris that the fish may eat
    her, for this is the reward of her who breaks her oath and is
    unfaithful to her love." And he redoubled in wrath and repeated
    the following verses:

    If any other share with me in her whom I adore, I'll root out
         passion from my heart, though longing me destroy;
    And I will say unto my soul, "Death is the better part;" For love
         is naught that men with me in common do enjoy.

    Then he said to the slave, "Smite her, O Saad!" Whereupon the
    latter bent down to me and said, "O my lady, repeat the
    profession of the faith and tell us if there be aught thou
    wouldst have done, for thy last hour is come." "O good slave,"
    said I, "grant me a little respite, that I may give thee my last
    injunctions." Then I raised my head and considered my case and
    how I had fallen from high estate into abjection; wherefore the
    tears streamed from my eyes and I wept passing sore. He looked at
    me with angry eyes and repeated the following

    Say unto her who wronged us, on whom our kisses tire, Her that
         hath chosen another for darling of desire,
    Lo, we will spurn thee from us, before thou cast us off! That
         which is past between us suffices to our ire.

    When I heard this, I wept and looked at him and repeated the
    following verses:

    You doom my banishment from love and all unmoved remain; You rob
         my wounded lids of rest and sleep whilst I complain.
    You make mine eyes familiar with watching and unrest; Yet can my
         heart forget you not, nor eyes from tears refrain.
    You swore to me that you would keep, for aye, your plighted
         faith; But when my heart was yours, you broke the oath that
         you had ta'en.
    Are you secure against the shifts of time and evil chance, That
         you've no mercy on my love nor aught of pity deign?
    If I must die, I prithee, write, 'fore God, upon my tomb, "A
         slave of passion lieth here, who died of love in vain."
    It may be one shall pass that way, who knows the pangs of love,
         And looking on a lover's grave, take pity on her pain.

    Then I wept; and when he heard what I said and saw my tears, his
    anger redoubled, and he repeated the following verses:

    I left the darling of my heart, not from satiety; But she had
         sinned a sin that called aloud for punishment.
    She would have ta'en another in to share with me her love, But
         the religion of my heart to share will not consent[FN#57].

    Then I wept again and implored him, saying to myself, "I will
    work on him with words; so haply he may spare my life, though he
    take all I have." So I complained to him of my sufferings and
    repeated the following verses:

    If thou indeed wert just to me, thou wouldst not take my life.
         Alas! against the law of Death no arbiter is there!
    Thou layst upon my back the load of passion and desire, When I
         for weakness scarce can lift the very gown I wear!
    That so my soul should waste away, small wonder is to me; But oh!
         I wonder how my flesh can thine estrangement bear.

    Then I wept again, and he looked at me and reviled and reproached
    me, repeating the following verses:

    Thou hast forgotten my love in the arms of another than me; Thou
         shew'st me estrangement, though I was never unfaithful to
         thee.
    So I will cast thee away, since thou wast the first to forsake,
         And by thy pattern content to live without thee will I be.
    And (like thyself) in the arms of another thy charms I'll forget;
         'Tis thou that hast sundered our loves: thou canst not
         reproach it to me.

    Then he called to the slave with the sword, saying "Cut her in
    half and rid us of her, for we have no profit of her." So the
    slave drew near to me and I gave myself up for lost and committed
    my affair to God the Most High; but, at this moment, in came the
    old woman and threw herself at my husband's feet and kissed them,
    saying, "O my son, for the sake of my fosterage of thee and my
    service to thee, spare this young lady, for indeed she has done
    nothing deserving of death. Thou art a very young man, and I fear
    lest her death be laid to thy count, for it is said, 'He who
    kills shall be killed.' As for this wretched woman, put her away
    from thee and from thy thought and heart." And she ceased not to
    weep and implore him, till he relented and said, "I pardon her,
    but I will set a mark on her that shall stay with her all her
    life." Then he made the slaves strip off my clothes and hold me
    down, and taking a rod of quince-wood beat me with it on the back
    and sides till I lost my senses for excess of pain and despaired
    of life. Then he commanded slaves, as soon as it was dark, to
    carry me back to the house in which I had lived before my
    marriage with him, taking the old woman with them to guide them.
    They did as he bade them and cast me down in my house and went
    away. I did not recover from my swoon till the morning, when I
    applied myself to the dressing of my wounds, and medicined myself
    and kept my bed for four months, at the end of which time my body
    healed and I was restored to health; but my sides still bore the
    marks of the blows, as thou hast seen. As soon as I could walk, I
    went to the house where all this had happened, but found the
    whole street pulled down and nothing but heaps of rubbish where
    the house had stood, nor could I learn how this had come about.
    Then I betook myself to this my half-sister and found with her
    these two black bitches. I saluted her and told her what had
    befallen me; and she said, "O my sister, who is safe from the
    vicissitudes of fortune? Praised be God, who hath brought thee
    off with thy life!" And she repeated the following verse:

    Fortune indeed was ever thus: endure it patiently, Whether thou
         suffer loss of wealth or friends depart from thee.

    Then she told me her own story, and we abode together, she and I,
    never mentioning the name of marriage. After awhile there came to
    live with us this our other sister the cateress, who goes out
    every day and buys what we require for the day and night. We led
    this life till yesterday, when our sister went out as usual and
    fell in with the porter. Presently we were joined by these three
    Calenders and later on by three respectable merchants from
    Tiberias, all of whom we admitted to our company on certain
    conditions, which they infringed. But we forgave them their
    breach of faith, on condition that they should give us an account
    of themselves; so they told us their stories and went away; and
    we heard nothing more till this morning, when we were summoned to
    appear before thee; and this is our story.' The Khalif wondered
    at her story, and ordered it and those of her sister and the
    Calenders to be recorded in the archives of his reign and laid up
    in the royal treasury. Then he said to the eldest lady, 'Knowst
    thou where to find the Afriteh who enchanted thy sisters?' 'O
    Commander of the Faithful,' answered she, 'she gave me some of
    her hair, saying, "When thou wouldst see me, burn one or two of
    these hairs, and I will be with thee presently, though I be
    behind the mountain Caf."' Quoth the Khalif, 'Bring me the hair.'
    So she fetched it and he threw the whole lock into the fire,
    whereupon the palace shook and they heard a rumbling sound of
    thunder, and presently the Jinniyeh appeared and saluted the
    Khalif, saying, 'Peace be upon thee, O vicar of God!' 'And on
    thee be peace,' answered he, 'and the mercy of God and His
    blessing!' Quoth she, 'Know that this lady did me a service for
    which I cannot enough requite her, in that she saved me from
    death and slew my enemy. Now I had seen how her sisters dealt
    with her and felt bound to avenge her on them. At first, I was
    minded to kill them, but I feared it would be grievous to her, so
    I turned them into bitches; and now, O Commander of the Faithful,
    if thou wouldst have me release them, I will do so, out of
    respect to thee and to her, for I am of the true believers.'
    'Release them,' said the Khalif; 'and after we will proceed to
    look into the affair of the beaten lady, and if her account prove
    true, we will avenge her on him who wronged her.' 'O Commander of
    the Faithful,' replied she, 'I will release them forthwith and
    bring thee to the knowledge of him who maltreated this lady and
    took her property; and he is the nearest of all men to thee.' So
    saying, she took a cup of water and muttered over it and spoke
    words that might not be understood. Then she threw some of the
    water in the faces of the bitches, saying, 'Return to your former
    human shape;' whereupon they were restored to their original
    form, and the Afriteh said to the Khalif, 'O Commander of the
    Faithful, he who beat this lady is thy son El Amin, brother of El
    Mamoun[FN#58], who heard of her beauty and grace and laid a trap
    for her and married her; and indeed he is not to blame for
    beating her, for he laid a condition on her and took of her a
    solemn oath that she would not do a certain thing; but she was
    false to her vow; and he was minded to kill her, but was
    restrained by the fear of God the Most High and contented himself
    with beating her, as thou hast seen, and sending her back to her
    own place.' When the Khalif heard this, he wondered greatly and
    said, 'Glory be to God the Most High, the Supreme, who hath
    vouchsafed me the delivery of these two damsels from enchantment
    and torment and hath granted me to know the secret of this lady's
    history! By Allah, I will do a thing that shall be chronicled
    after me!' Then he summoned his son El Amin and questioned him of
    the story of the portress, and he told him the truth; whereupon
    the Khalif sent for Cadis and witnesses and married the eldest
    lady and her two sisters-german to the three Calenders, whom he
    made his chamberlains, appointing them stipends and all that they
    needed and lodging them in his palace at Baghdad. Moreover, he
    returned the beaten girl to her husband, his son El Amin,
    renewing the marriage contract between them, and gave her great
    wealth and bade rebuild the house more handsomely than before. As
    for himself, he took to wife the cateress and lay with her that
    night; and on the morrow he assigned her a separate lodging in
    his seraglio, with a fixed allowance and serving-maids to wait on
    her; and the people marvelled at his equity and magnificence and
    generosity.

    When Shehrzad had made an end of her story, Dunyazad said to her,
    "By Allah, this is indeed a pleasant and delightful story, never
    was heard its like! But now, O my sister, tell us another story,
    to beguile the rest of the waking hours of our night." "With all
    my heart," answered Shehrzad, "if the King give me leave." And he
    said, "Tell thy story, and that quickly." Then said she, "They
    say, O King of the age and lord of the time and the day, that
