Yesterday morning early I was at an entertainment given by a
    friend of mine, at which there were assembled near twenty men of
    the people of the city, amongst them tailors and silk-weavers and
    carpenters and other craftsmen. As soon as the sun had risen,
    they set food before us that we might eat, when behold, the
    master of the house entered, and with him a comely young man, a
    stranger from Baghdad, dressed in the finest of clothes and
    perfectly handsome, except that he was lame. He saluted us, while
    we rose to receive him; and he was about to sit down, when he
    espied amongst us a certain barber; whereupon he refused to sit
    and would have gone away. But we stopped him and the host seized
    him and adjured him, saying, "What is the reason of thy coming in
    and going out again at once?" "By Allah, O my lord," answered he,
    "do not hinder me, for the cause of my turning back is yonder
    barber of ill-omen sitting there." When the host heard this, he
    wondered and said, "How comes this young man, who is from
    Baghdad. to be troubled in his mind about this barber?" Then we
    looked at the young man and said to him, "Tell us the reason of
    thine anger against the barber." "O company," replied he, "there
    befell me a strange adventure with this barber in my native city
    of Baghdad; he was the cause of the breaking of my leg and of my
    lameness, and I have sworn that I will never sit in the same
    place with him nor tarry in any city of which he is an
    inhabitant. I left Baghdad, to be rid of him, and took up my
    abode in this city and lo, I find him with you! But now not
    another night shall pass, before I depart hence." So we begged
    him to sit down and tell us what had passed between him and the
    barber in Baghdad, whereat the latter changed colour and hung
    down his head. Then said the young man, "Know, O company, that my
    father was one of the chief merchants of Baghdad, and God had
    vouchsafed him no child but myself. When I grew up to man's
    estate, my father was translated to the mercy of God, leaving me
    great wealth in money and slaves and servants, and I began to
    dress handsomely and feed daintily. Now God had made me a hater
    of women, and one day, as I was going along one of the streets of
    Baghdad, a company of women stopped the way before me; so I fled
    from them, and entering a by-street without an outlet, sat down
    upon a stone bench at the other end. I had not sat long, before
    the lattice of one of the houses in the street opened and a young
    lady, as she were the moon at its full, never in my life saw I
    her like, put forth her head and began to water some flowers she
    had on the balcony. Then she turned right and left and seeing me
    watching her, smiled and shut the window and went away.
    Therewithal, fire flamed up in my heart and my mind was taken up
    with her, and my hatred (of women) was changed to love. I
    continued sitting there, lost to the world, till sundown, when
    the Cadi of the city came riding up the street, with slaves
    before him and servants behind him, and alighting, entered the
    very house at which the young lady had appeared. By this I
    guessed that he was her father; so I went home, sorrowful, and
    fell on my bed, oppressed with melancholy thoughts. My women came
    in to me and sat round me, puzzled to know what ailed me; but I
    would not speak to them nor answer their questions, and they wept
    and lamented over me. Presently, in came an old woman, who looked
    at me and saw at once what was the matter with me. So she sat
    down at my head and spoke me fair and said, 'O my son, tell me
    what ails thee, and I will bring thee to thy desire.' So I told
    her what had happened to me, and she said, 'O my son, this girl is
    the Cadi's daughter of Baghdad; she is kept in strict seclusion,
    and the window at which thou sawest her is that of her apartment,
    where she dwells alone, her father occupying a great suite of
    rooms underneath. I often visit her, and thou shalt not come at
    her but through me; so gird thy middle and be of good cheer.' So
    saying, she went away, whilst I took comfort at what she said and
    arose in the morning well, to the great satisfaction of my
    people. By-and-by the old woman came in, chopfallen, and said to
    me, 'O my son, do not ask how I have fared with her! When I
    opened the subject to her, she said to me, "An thou leave not
    this talk, pestilent hag that thou art, I will assuredly use thee
    as thou deserves!" But needs must I have at her again.' When I
    heard this, it added sickness to my sickness: but after some
    days, the old woman came again and said to me, 'O my son, I must
    have of thee a present for good news.' With this, life returned
    to me, and I said, 'Whatever thou wilt is thine.' Then said she,
    'O my son, I went yesterday to the young lady, who seeing me
    broken-spirited and tearful-eyed, said to me, "O my aunt, what
    ails thee that I see thy heart thus straitened?" Whereupon I wept
    and replied, "O my lady, I am just come from a youth who loves
    thee and is like to die for thy sake." Quoth she (and indeed her
    heart was moved to pity), "And who is this youth of whom thou
    speakest?" "He is my son," answered I, "and the darling of my
    heart. He saw thee, some days since, at the window, tending thy
    flowers, and fell madly in love with thee. I told him what passed
    between thee and me the other day, whereupon his disorder
    increased and he took to his bed and will surely die." At this
    her colour changed and she said, "Is all this on my account?"
    "Yea, by Allah!" answered I. "What wouldst thou have me do?" Then
    said she, "Go back to him and salute him for me and tell him that
    my sufferings are twice as great as his. And on Friday, before
    the time of prayer, let him come hither and I will come down and
    open the door to him. Then I will carry him to my chamber, where
    we can converse awhile and he can go away, before my father comes
    back from the mosque."' When I heard this, my anguish ceased and
    my heart was comforted. So I took off the clothes I was wearing
    and gave them to the old woman; and she said, 'Be of good cheer.'
    'There is no pain left in me,' answered I; and she went away. My
    household and friends rejoiced in my restoration to health, and I
    abode thus till Friday, when the old woman entered and asked me
    how I did, to which I replied that I was well and in good case.
    Then I dressed and perfumed myself and sat down to await the
    going in of the folk to the mosque, that I might betake myself to
    the young lady. But the old woman said to me, 'Thou hast time and
    to spare; so thou wouldst do well to go to the bath and have thy
    head shaved, to do away the traces of thy disorder.' 'It is well
    thought,' answered I; 'I will first have my head shaved and then
    go to the bath.' Then I said to my servant, 'Go to the market and
    bring me a barber, and look that he be no meddler, but a man of
    sense, who will not split my head with his much talk.' So he went
    out and returned with this wretched old man. When he came in, he
    saluted me, and I returned his salutation. Then said he, 'Surely,
    I see thee thin of body.' And I replied, 'I have been ill.' Quoth
    he, 'God cause affliction and trouble and anxiety to depart from
    thee!' 'May God hear thy prayer!' answered I: and he said, 'Be of
    good cheer, O my lord, for indeed recovery is come to thee. Dost
    thou wish to be polled or let blood? Indeed, it is reported, on
    the authority of Ibn Abbas[FN#87] (whom God accept!), that the
    Prophet said, "Whoso is polled on a Friday, God shall avert from
    him threescore and ten diseases;" and again, "He who is cupped
    on a Friday is safe from loss of sight and a host of other
    ailments."' 'Leave this talk,' said I; 'come, shave my head at
    once, for I am yet weak.' With this he pulled out a handkerchief,
    from which he took an astrolabe with seven plates, mounted in
    silver, and going into the courtyard, held the instrument up to
    the sun's rays and looked for some time. Then he came back and
    said to me, 'Know that eight degrees and six minutes have elapsed
    of this our day, which is Friday, the tenth of Sefer, in the six
    hundred and fifty-third year of the Flight of the Prophet (upon
    whom be the most excellent of blessing and peace!) and the seven
    thousand three hundred and twentieth year of the Alexandrian era,
    and the planet now in the ascendant, according to the rules of
    mathematics, is Mars, which being in conjunction with Mercury,
    denotes a favourable time for cutting hair; and this also
    indicates to me that thou purposest to foregather with some one
    and that your interview will be propitious; but after this there
    occurs a sign, respecting a thing which I will not name to thee.'
    'By Allah,' exclaimed I, 'thou weariest me and pesterest me with
    thy foolish auguries, when I only sent for thee to shave my head!
    So come, shave me at once and give me no more talk.' 'By Allah,'
    rejoined he, 'if thou knewest what is about to befall thee, thou
    wouldst do nothing this day; and I counsel thee to do as I shall
    tell thee, by observation of the stars.' 'By Allah,' said I, 'I
    never saw a barber skilled in astrology except thee: but I think
    and know that thou art prodigal of idle talk. I sent for thee to
    shave my head, and thou plaguest me with this sorry prate!' 'What
    more wouldst thou have!' replied he. 'God hath vouchsafed thee a
    barber, who is an astrologer, versed in the arts of alchemy and
    white magic, syntax, grammar and lexicology, rhetoric and logic,
    arithmetic, astronomy and geometry, as well as in the knowledge
    of the Law and the Traditions of the Prophet and in exegesis.
    Moreover, I have read many books and digested them and have had
    experience of affairs and understand them thoroughly. In short, I
    have examined into all things and studied all arts and crafts and
    sciences and mastered them; and thy father loved me because of my
    lack of officiousness, for which reason my service is obligatory
    on thee. I am no meddler, as thou pretendest, and on this account
    I am known as the Silent, the Grave One. Wherefore it behoves
    thee to give thanks to God and not cross me for I am a true
    counsellor to thee and take an affectionate interest in thee. I
    would I were in thy service a whole year, that thou mightst do me
    justice: and I would ask no hire of thee for this.' When I heard
    this, I said, 'Thou wilt certainly be the death of me this day!'
    'O my lord,' replied he, 'I am he whom the folk call the Silent,
    by reason of my few words, to distinguish me from my six
    brothers, the eldest of whom was called Becbac,[FN#88] the
    second Heddar,[FN#89] the third Fekic,[FN#90] the fourth El
    Kouz el Aswani,[FN#91] the fifth El Feshar,[FN#92] the sixth
    Shecashic[FN#93] and the seventh (myself) Samit[FN#94].' Whilst
    he thus overwhelmed me with his talk, I thought my gall-bladder
    would burst so I said to the servant, 'Give him a quarter-dinar
    and let him go, for God's sake! I won't have my head shaved
    to-day.' 'What words are these, O my lord?' said he. 'By Allah, I
    will take no hire of thee till I have served thee; and needs must
    I serve thee, for indeed it is incumbent on me to do so and
    fulfil thy need; and I care not if I take no money of thee. If
    thou knowest not my worth, I know thine; and I owe thy father
    (may God the Most High have mercy on him!) many a kindness, for
    he was a generous man. By Allah, he sent for me one day as it
    were this blessed day, and I went in to him and found a company
    of his friends with him. He would have had me let him blood; but
    I pulled out my astrolabe and taking an altitude for him, found
    the aspect inauspicious and the hour unfavourable for the letting
    of blood. I told him of this and he conformed to my advice and
    put off the operation to a more convenient season. So I recited
    the following verses in his honour:

    I came one day unto my lord, that I might let him blood, But
         found that for his body's health the season was not good;
    So sat me down and talked with him of many a pleasant thing And
         all the treasures of my mind before him freely strewed.
    Well pleased, he listened, then, "O mine of knowledge!" he did
         say, "Thy wit and wisdom overpass the bounds of likelihood!"
    "Not so," quoth I; "my wit indeed were little, but for thee, O
         prince of men, that pour'st on me thy wisdom like a flood!
    Thou seem'st indeed the lord of grace, bounty and excellence,
         World's treasure-house of knowledge, wit, sense and
         mansuetude!"

    Thy father was charmed and cried out to the servant, saying,
    "Give him a hundred and three dinars and a dress of honour." The
    servant did as he bade, and I waited till a favourable moment,
    when I let him blood; and he did not cross me, but thanked me,
    and all present also praised me. When the cupping was over, I
    could not help saying to him, "By Allah, O my lord, what made
    thee say to the servant, 'Give him a hundred and three dinars'?"
    Quoth he, "One dinar was for the astrological observation,
    another for thine entertaining converse, the third for the
    bloodletting and the remaining hundred and the dress for thy
    verses in my honour."' 'May God show no mercy to my father,'
    exclaimed I, 'for knowing the like of thee?' He laughed and said,
    'There is no god but God and Mohammed is His Apostle! Glory be to
    Him who changes but is not changed! I took thee for a man of
    sense; but I see thou dotest for illness. God says, in His
    precious Book, that Paradise is prepared for "those who restrain
    their wrath and forgive men", and in any case thou art excused.
    But I am ignorant of the cause of thy haste, and thou must know
    that thy father and grandfather did nothing without consulting
    me, for indeed it is said that he with whom one takes counsel
    should be trustworthy and that he who takes counsel shall not be
    disappointed. It is said also that he who hath not an elder (to
    advise him) will never be an elder himself; and indeed the poet
    says:

    Ere thou decide to venture thyself in aught, Consult an
         experienced man and cross him not.

    And indeed thou wilt find none better versed in affairs than I,
    and I am here standing on my feet to serve thee. I am not vexed
    with thee: why shouldst thou be vexed with me? But I will bear
    with thee for the sake of the favours I owe thy father.' 'By
    Allah,' exclaimed I, 'O thou whose tongue is as long as a
    jackass's tail, thou persistest in pestering me with talk and
    pelting me with words, when all I want of thee is to shave my
    head and take thyself off!' Then he lathered my head, saying, 'I
    know that thou art vexed with me, but I bear thee no malice; for
    thy wit is weak and thou art a boy: it was but yesterday I took
    thee on my shoulders and carried thee to the school' 'O my
    brother,'. cried I, 'for God's sake, do what I want and go thy
    way!' And I rent my clothes. When he saw me do this, he took the
    razor and fell to sharpening it and stinted not, till I was
    well-nigh distraught. Then he came up to me and shaved a part of
    my head, then held his hand and said, 'O my lord, hurry is of the
    Devil and deliberation of the Merciful One. Methinks thou knowest
    not my station; verily my hand falls on the heads of kings and
    amirs and viziers and sages and learned men: and it was of me the
    poet said:

    All the trades are like necklets of jewels and gold And this
         barber indeed's the chief pearl of the strings.
    He excelleth all others that boast of their skill. And under his
         hand are the topknots of kings.'

    'Leave what concerns thee not,' said I: 'indeed thou hast
    straitened my breast and troubled my mind.' Quoth he, Meseems
    thou art in haste. 'Yes, yes, yes!' answered I, and he, 'Thou
    wouldst do well to proceed with deliberation, for haste is of the
    Devil and bequeaths repentance and disappointment. Verily he upon
    whom be blessing and peace[FN#95] hath said, "The best affair is
    that which is undertaken with deliberation." By Allah, thy case
    troubles me, and I would have thee let me know what it is thou
    art in such haste to do, for I fear me it is other than good.'
    Then said he, 'It wants three hours yet of the time of prayer.
    However, I do not wish to be in doubt as to this, but am minded
    to know the time for certain; for speech, when it is conjectural,
    is but faulty, especially in the like of me, whose merit is plain
    and known of all men; and it does not befit me to talk at random,
    as do the common sort of astrologers.' So saying, he threw down
    the razor and taking up the astrolabe, went out under the sun and
    stood a long while, after which he returned and said to me, 'It
    wants three hours of the time of prayer, neither more nor less.'
    'By Allah,' answered I, 'hold thy tongue, for thou breakest my
    heart in pieces!' So he took his razor and after sharpening it as
    before, shaved another part of my head. Then he said, 'I am
    concerned about thy haste; and indeed thou wouldst do well to
    tell me the cause of it, for thou knowest that thy father and
    grandfather did nothing without my counsel.' When I saw that
    there was no getting rid of him, I said to myself, 'The time of
    prayer draws near and I wish to go to her before the folk come
    out from the mosque. If I am delayed much longer, I know not
    how I shall come at her.' Then I said to him, 'Be quick and
    leave this prating and officiousness, for I have to go to an
    entertainment at the house of one of my friends.' When he heard
    me speak of an entertainment, he said, 'This thy day is a blessed
    one for me! Verily, yesterday I invited a party of my intimate
    friends and I have forgotten to provide aught for them to eat. I
    bethought me of it but now, on hearing thee speak of an
    entertainment. Alack, how I shall be disgraced in their eyes!'
    'Be in no concern for that,' answered I. 'Have I not told thee
    that I am bidden abroad to-day? All the meat and drink in the
    house shall be thine, so thou despatch my affair and make haste
    to shave my head.' 'God requite thee with good!' rejoined he.
    'Tell me what thou hast for my guests, that I may know.' Quoth I,
    'I have five dishes of meat and ten fricasseed fowls and a
    roasted lamb.' 'Bring them out to me,' said he, 'that I may see
    them.' So I had all this brought, and when he saw it, he said,
    'There lacks the wine.' 'I have a flagon or two in the house,'
    answered I; and he said, 'Have it brought out.' So I sent for it,
    and he exclaimed, 'God bless thee for a generous soul! But there
    are still the perfumes and the essences.' So I brought him a box,
    containing fifty dinars' worth of aloes-wood and ambergris and
    musk and other perfumes. By this, the time began to run short and
    my heart was straitened; so I said to him, 'Take it all and
    finish shaving my head, by the life of Mohammed, whom God bless
    and preserve!' 'By Allah,' said he, 'I will not take it till
    I see all that is in it.' So I made the servant open the box,
    and the barber threw down the astrolabe and sitting down on
    the ground, turned over the contents, till I was well-nigh
    distracted. Then he took the razor and coming up to me, shaved
    some little of my head and recited the following verse:

    The boy after his father's guise grows up and follows suit As
         surely as the tree springs up from out its parent root.

    Then said he, 'O my son, I know not whether to thank thee or thy
    father; for my entertainment to-day is all due to thy kindness
    and liberality, and none of my company is worthy of it; though I
    have none but men of consideration, such as Zentout the
    bath-keeper and Selya the corn-chandler and Silet the bean-seller
    and Akresheh the grocer and Hemid the scavenger and Said the
    camel-driver and Suweyd the porter and Abou Mukarish the
    bathman[FN#96] and Cassim the watchman and Kerim the groom.
    There is not among them all one curmudgeon or make-bate or
    meddler or spoil-sport; each has his own dance that he dances
    and his own couplets that he repeats, and the best of them is
    that they are like thy servant, knowing not abundance of talk
    nor meddlesomeness. The bath-keeper sings enchantingly to the
    tambourine and dances and says, "I am going, O my mother, to fill
    my jar!" As for the corn-chandler, he brings more skill to it
    than any of them; he dances and says, "O mourner, my mistress,
    thou dost not fall short!" and draws the very heart out of one
    for laughing at him. Whilst the scavenger sings, so that the
    birds stop to listen to him, and dances and says, "News with my
    wife is not kept in a chest!" And indeed he is a witty,
    accomplished rogue, and of his excellence I use to say the
    following:

    My life redeem the scavenger! I love him passing dear, For, in
         his goodly gait, he's like the zephyr-shaken bough.
    Fate blessed my eyes with him one night; and I to him did say,
         (Whilst in my bosom, as I spoke, desire did ebb and flow,)
    "Thou'st lit thy fire within my heart!" Whereto he answer made
         "What wonder though the scavenger have turned a
         fire-man[FN#97] now?"

    And indeed each is perfection in all that can charm the wit with
    mirth and jollity. But hearing is not like seeing; and indeed if
    thou wilt join us and put off going to thy friends, it will be
    better both for us and for thee: for the traces of sickness are
    yet upon thee and belike thou art going amongst talkative folk,
    who will prate of what does not concern them, or there may be
    amongst them some impertinent busybody who will split thy head,
    and thou still weak from illness.' 'This shall be for another
    day,' answered I and laughed in spite of my anger. 'Finish what
    thou hast to do for me and go in peace and enjoy thyself with thy
    friends, for they will be awaiting thy coming.' 'O my lord,'
    replied he, 'I only seek to bring thee in company with these
    pleasant folk, amongst whom there is neither meddlesomeness nor
    excess of talk; for never, since I came to years of discretion,
    could I endure to consort with those who ask of what concerns
    them not, nor with any except those who are, like myself, men of
    few words. Verily, if thou wert once to see them and company with
    them, thou wouldst forsake all thy friends.' 'God fulfil thy
    gladness with them!' rejoined I. 'Needs must I foregather with
    them one of these days.' And he said, 'I would it were to be
    to-day, for I had made up my mind that thou shouldst make one of
    us: but if thou must indeed go to thy friends to-day, I will take
    the good things, with which thy bounty hath provided me for them,
    to my guests, and leave them to eat and drink, without waiting
    for me, whilst I return to thee in haste and accompany thee
    whither thou goest; for there is no ceremony between me and my
    friends to hinder me from leaving them.' 'There is no power and
    no virtue but in God the Most High, the Supreme!' cried I. 'Go
    thou to thy friends and make merry with them and let me go to
    mine and be with them this day, for they expect me.' 'I will
    not let thee go alone,' replied he: and I said, 'None can enter
    where I am going but myself.' Then said he, 'I believe thou
    hast an assignation with some woman to-day; else thou wouldst
    take me with thee, for it is the like of me that furnishes a
    merry-making; or if thou go to any one with whom thou wouldst be
    private, I am the fittest of all men for thy purpose, for I would
    help thee to what thou desirest and look that none saw thee. I
    fear lest thou go in to some strange woman and lose thy life; for
    in this city one cannot do aught of the kind, especially on a day
    like this and under so keen and masterful a chief of the police
    as ours of Baghdad.' 'Out on thee, O wretched old man!' cried I.
    'Avaunt! what words are these thou givest me?' 'O dolt!' rejoined
    he, 'thou sayest to me what is not true and hidest thy mind from
    me; but I know that this is so and am certain of it, and I only
    seek to help thee this day.' I was fearful lest my people or the
    neighbours should hear the barber's talk, so kept silence, whilst
    he finished shaving my head; by which time the hour of prayer was
    come and it was wellnigh time for the exhortation.[FN#98] When he
    had done, I said to him, 'Take the meat and drink and carry them
    to thy friends. I will await thy return.' For I thought it best
    to dissemble with the accursed fellow and feign compliance with
    his wishes, so haply he might go away and leave me. Quoth he,
    'Thou art deceiving me and wilt go alone and cast thyself into
    some peril, from which there will be no escape for thee. For
    God's sake, do not go till I return, that I may accompany thee
    and see what comes of thine affair.' 'It is well,' answered I:
    'do not be long absent.' Then he took all that I had given him
    and went out; but, instead of going home with it, the cursed
    fellow delivered it to a porter, to carry to his house, and hid
    himself in a by-street. As for me, I rose at once, for the
    Muezzins had already chanted the Salutation,[FN#99] and, dressing
    myself in haste, went out and hurried to the house where I had
    seen the young lady. I found the old woman standing at the door,
    awaiting me, and went up with her to the young lady's apartment.
    Hardly had I done so, when the master of the house returned from
    the mosque and entering the saloon, shut the door. I looked out
    from the window and saw this barber (God's malison on him!)
    sitting over against the door, and said, 'How did this devil find
    me out?' At this moment, as God had decreed it for my undoing, it
    befell that a slave-girl belonging to the master of the house
    committed some offence, for which he beat her. She cried out, and
    a male slave came in to deliver her, whereupon the Cadi beat him
    also, and he too cried out. The cursed barber concluded that it
    was I he was beating and fell to tearing his clothes and strewing
    dust on his head, shrieking and calling for help. So the folk
    came round him, and he said to them, 'My master is being murdered
    in the Cadi's house!' Then he ran, shrieking, to my house, with
    the folk after him, and told my people and servants: and before I
    knew what was forward, up they came, with torn clothes and
    dishevelled hair, calling out, 'Alas, our master!' and the barber
    at their head, in a fine pickle, tearing his clothes and
    shouting. They made for the house in which I was, headed by the
    barber, crying out, 'Woe is us for our murdered master!' And the
    Cadi, hearing the uproar at his door, said to one of his
    servants, 'Go and see what is the matter.' The man went out and
    came back, saying, 'O my lord, there are more than ten thousand
    men and women at the door, crying out, "Woe is us for our
    murdered master!" and pointing to our house.' When the Cadi heard
    this, he was troubled and vexed; so he went to the door and
    opening it, saw a great concourse of people; whereat he was
    amazed and said, 'O folk, what is the matter?' 'O accursed one, O
    dog, O hog,' replied my servants, 'thou hast killed our master!'
    Quoth he, 'And what has your master done to me that I should kill
    him? Behold, this my house is open to you!' 'Thou didst beat him
    but now with rods,' answered the barber; 'for I heard his cries.'
    'What has he done that I should beat him?' repeated the Cadi;
    'and what brings him into my house?' 'Be not a vile, perverse old
    man!' replied the barber; 'I know the whole story. The long and
    the short of it is that thy daughter is in love with him and he
    with her; and when thou knewest that he had entered the house,
    thou badest thy servants beat him, and they did so. By Allah,
    none shall judge between us and thee but the Khalif! So bring us
    out our master, that his people may take him, before I go and
    fetch him forth of thy house and thou be put to shame.' When the
    Cadi heard this, he was dumb for amazement and confusion before
    the people, but presently said to the barber, 'If thou speak
    truth, come in and fetch him out.' Whereupon the barber pushed
    forward and entered the house. When I saw this, I looked about
    for a means of escape, but saw no hiding-place save a great chest
    that stood in the room. So I got into the chest and pulled the
    lid down on me and held my breath. Hardly had I done this, when
    the barber came straight to the place where I was and catching up
    the chest, set it on his head and made off with it in haste. At
    this, my reason forsook me and I was assured that he would not
    let me be; so I took courage and opening the chest, threw myself
    to the ground. My leg was broken in the fall, and the door of the
    house being opened, I saw without a great crowd of people. Now I
    had much gold in my sleeve, which I had provided against the like
    of this occasion; so I fell to scattering it among the people, to
    divert their attention from me; and whilst they were busy
    scrambling for it, I set off running through the by-streets of
    Baghdad, and this cursed barber, whom nothing could divert from
    me, after me. Wherever I went, he followed, crying out, 'They
    would have bereft me of my master and slain him who has been a
    benefactor to me and my family and friends! But praised be God
    who aided me against them and delivered my lord from their hands!
    Where wilt thou go now? Thou persistedst in following thine own
    evil devices, till thou broughtest thyself to this pass, and if
    God had not vouchsafed me to thee, thou hadst never won free from
    this strait, for they would have plunged thee into irremediable
    ruin. How long dost thou expect I shall live to save thee? By
    Allah, thou hast well-nigh undone me by thy folly and thy
    perverseness in wishing to go by thyself! But I will not reproach
    thee with ignorance, for thou art little of wit and hasty.' 'Does
    not what thou hast brought upon me suffice thee,' replied I, 'but
    thou must pursue me with the like of this talk through the public
    streets?' And I well-nigh gave up the ghost for excess of rage
    against him. Then I took refuge in the shop of a weaver in the
    midst of the market and sought protection of the owner, who drove
    the barber away. I sat down in the back shop and said to myself,
    'If I return home, I shall never be able to get rid of this
    accursed barber, for he will be with me night and day, and I
    cannot endure the sight of him.' So I sent out at once for
    witnesses and made a will, dividing the greater part of my money
    among my people, and appointed a guardian over them, to whom I
    committed the charge of great and small directing him to sell my
    house and estates. Then I set out at once on my travels, that I
    might be free of this ruffian, and came to settle in your town,
    where I have lived for some time. When you invited me and I came
    hither the first thing I saw was this accursed pimp seated in the
    place of honour. How, then, can I be at my ease and how can it be
    pleasant to me to consort with you, in company with this fellow,
    who brought all this upon me and was the cause of the breaking of
    my leg and of my exile from my country and family?" And he
    refused to sit down and went away. When we heard the young man's
    story (continued the tailor), we were beyond measure amazed and
    diverted and said to the barber, "Is it true that this young man
    says of thee?" "By Allah," replied he, "I dealt thus with him of
    my courtesy and good sense and humanity. But for me, he had
    perished and none but I was the cause of his escape. Well for him
    that it was in his leg that he suffered and not in his life! Were
    I a man of many words or a busybody, I had not done him this
    kindness; but now I will tell you something that happened to me,
    that ye may know that I am indeed sparing of speech and no
    impertinent meddler, as were my six brothers; and it is this:
