Then quoth the Tailor to the King of China: When we heard the Barber's
    tale and saw the excess of his loquacity and the way in which he had
    wronged this young man, we laid hands on him and shut him up, after
    which we sat down in peace, and ate and drank and enjoyed the good
    things of the marriage feast till the time of the call to mid afternoon
    prayer, when I left the party and returned home. My wife received me
    with sour looks and said, "Thou goest a pleasuring among thy friends
    and thou leavest me to sit sorrowing here alone. So now, unless thou
    take me abroad and let me have some amusement for the rest of the day,
    I will cut the rope[FN#695] and it will be the cause of my separation
    from thee." So I took her out and we amused ourselves till supper time,
    when we returned home and fell in with this Hunchback who was brimful
    of drink and trolling out these rhymes:

    "Clear's the wine, the cup's fine;   * Like to like they combine:
    It is wine and not cup!              * 'Tis a cup and not wine!"


    So I invited him to sup with us and went out to buy fried fish; after
    which we sat down to eat; and presently my wife took a piece of bread
    and a fid of fish and stuffed them into his mouth and he choked; and,
    though I slapped him long and hard between the shoulders, he died. Then
    I carried him off and contrived to throw him into the house of this
    leach, the Jew; and the leach contrived to throw him into the house of
    the Reeve; and the Reeve contrived to throw him on the way of the
    Nazarene broker. This, then, is my adventure which befell me but
    yesterday. Is not it more wondrous than the story of the Hunchback?
    When the King of China heard the Tailor's tale he shook his head for
    pleasure; and, showing great surprise, said, "This that passed between
    the young man and the busy-body of a Barber is indeed more pleasant and
    wonderful than the story of my lying knave of a Hunchback." Then he
    bade one of his Chamberlains go with the Tailor and bring the Barber
    out of jail, saying, "I wish to hear the talk of this Silent Man and it
    shall be the cause of your deliverance one and all: then we will bury
    the Hunchback, for that he is dead since yesterday, and set up a tomb
    over him."—And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say
    her per misted say.

                  When it was the Thirty-fourth Night,

    She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the King of China
    bade, "Bring me the Barber who shall be the cause of your deliverance;
    then we will bury this Hunchback, for that he is dead since yesterday
    and set up a tomb over him." So the Chamberlain and the Tailor went to
    the jail and, releasing the Barber, presently returned with him to the
    King. The Sultan of China looked at him and considered him carefully
    and lo and behold! he was an ancient man, past his ninetieth year;
    swart of face, white of beard, and hoar of eyebrows; lop eared and
    proboscis-nosed,[FN#696] with a vacant, silly and conceited expression
    of countenance. The King laughed at this figure o' fun and said to him,
    "O Silent Man, I desire thee to tell me somewhat of thy history." Quoth
    the Barber, "O King of the age, allow me first to ask thee what is the
    tale of this Nazarene and this Jew and this Moslem and this Hunchback
    (the corpse) I see among you? And prithee what may be the object of
    this assemblage?" Quoth the King of China, "And why dost thou ask?" "I
    ask," he replied, "in order that the King's majesty may know that I am
    no forward fellow or busy body or impertinent meddler; and that I am
    innocent of their calumnious charges of overmuch talk; for I am he
    whose name is the Silent Man, and indeed peculiarly happy is my
    sobriquet, as saith the poet:

    When a nickname or little name men design, * Know that nature with name
    shall full oft combine."

    Then said the King, "Explain to the Barber the case of this Hunchback
    and what befell him at supper time; also repeat to him the stories told
    by the Nazarene, the Jew, the Reeve, and the Tailor; and of no avail to
    me is a twice told tale." They did his bidding, and the Barber shook
    his head and said, "By Allah, this is a marvel of marvels! Now uncover
    me the corpse of yonder Hunchback. They undid the winding sheet and he
    sat down and, taking the Hunchback's head in his lap, looked at his
    face and laughed and guffaw'd[FN#697] till he fell upon his back and
    said, "There is wonder in every death,[FN#698] but the death of this
    Hunchback is worthy to be written and recorded in letters of liquid
    gold!" The bystanders were astounded at his words and the King
    marvelled and said to him, "What ails thee, O Silent Man? Explain to us
    thy words !" "O King of the age," said the Barber, "I swear by thy
    beneficence that there is still life in this Gobbo Golightly!"
    Thereupon he pulled out of his waist belt a barber's budget, whence he
    took a pot of ointment and anointed therewith the neck of the Hunchback
    and its arteries. Then he took a pair of iron tweezers and, inserting
    them into the Hunchback's throat, drew out the fid of fish with its
    bone; and, when it came to sight, behold, it was soaked in blood.
    Thereupon the Hunchback sneezed a hearty sneeze and jumped up as if
    nothing had happened and passing his hand over his face said, "I
    testify that there is no god, but the God, and I testify that Mohammed
    is the Apostle of God." At this sight all present wondered; the King of
    China laughed till he fainted and in like manner did the others. Then
    said the Sultan, "By Allah, of a truth this is the most marvellous
    thing I ever saw! O Moslems, O soldiers all, did you ever in the lives
    of you see a man die and be quickened again? Verily had not Allah
    vouchsafed to him this Barber, he had been a dead man!" Quoth they, "By
    Allah, 'tis a marvel of marvels." Then the King of China bade record
    this tale, so they recorded it and placed it in the royal
    muniment-rooms; after which he bestowed costly robes of honour upon the
    Jew, the Nazarene and the Reeve, and bade them depart in all esteem.
    Then he gave the Tailor a sumptuous dress and appointed him his own
    tailor, with suitable pay and allowances; and made peace between him
    and the Hunchback, to whom also he presented a splendid and expensive
    suit with a suitable stipend. He did as generously with the Barber,
    giving him a gift and a dress of honour; moreover he settled on him a
    handsome solde and created him Barber surgeon[FN#699] of state and made
    him one of his cup companions. So they ceased not to live the most
    pleasurable life and the most delectable, till there came to them the
    Destroyer of all delights and the Sunderer of all societies, the
    Depopulator of palaces and the Garnerer for graves. Yet, O most
    auspicious King! (continued Shahrazad) this tale is by no means more
    wonderful than that of the two Wazirs and Anís al-Jalís. Quoth her
    sister Dunyazad, "And what may that be?", whereupon she began to relate
    the following tale of
