The Khalif Haroun er Reshid summoned his Vizier Jaafer one night
    and said to him, 'I have a mind to go down into the city and
    question the common people of the conduct of the officers charged
    with its government; and those of whom they complain, we will
    depose, and those whom they commend, we will advance.' Quoth
    Jaafer, 'I hear and obey.' So the Khalif and Jaafer and Mesrour
    went down into the town and walked about the streets and markets
    till, as they were passing through a certain alley, they came
    upon an old man walking along at a leisurely pace, with a
    fishing-net and a basket on his head and a staff in his hand, and
    heard him repeat the following verses:

    They tell me I shine, by my wisdom and wit, Midst the rest of my
         kind, as the moon in the night.
    "A truce to your idle discourses!" I cry, "What's knowledge,
         indeed, unattended by might?"
    If you offered me, knowledge and wisdom and all, with my inkhorn
         and papers, in pawn for a mite,
    To buy one day's victual, the pledge they'd reject And cast, like
         an unread petition, from sight.
    Sorry, indeed, is the case of the poor, And his life, what a load
         of chagrin and despite!
    In summer, he's pinched for a living and cowers O'er the fire-pot
         in winter, for warmth and for light.
    The curs of the street dog his heels, as he goes, And the
         scurviest rascal may rail at the wight.
    If he lift up his voice to complain of his case, He finds not a
         soul who will pity his plight.
    Since such is the life and the lot of the poor, It were better he
         lay in the graveyard forthright!

    When the Khalif heard this, he said to Jaafer, 'See yonder poor
    man and note his verses, for they show his necessity.' Then he
    went up to him and said, 'O old man, what is thy trade?' 'O my
    lord,' replied he, 'I am a fisherman, with a family to maintain;
    and I have been out since mid-day, but God has not vouchsafed me
    aught wherewith to feed them, and indeed I abhor myself and wish
    for death.' Quoth the Khalif, 'Wilt thou go back with me to the
    Tigris and cast thy net yet once more on my account, and I will
    buy of thee whatever comes up for a hundred dinars?' 'On my head
    be it!' answered the fisherman joyfully. 'I will go back with
    you.' So he returned with them to the river-bank and cast his net
    and waited awhile, then drew it up and found in it a chest,
    locked and heavy. The Khalif lifted it and found it weighty; so
    he gave the fisherman a hundred dinars, and he went his way;
    whilst Mesrour carried the chest to the palace, where he set it
    down before the Khalif and lighted the candles. Then Jaafer and
    Mesrour broke open the chest and found in it a basket of
    palm-leaves, sewn together with red worsted. This they cut open
    and found within a bundle wrapped in a piece of carpet. Under the
    carpet was a woman's veil and in this a young lady, as she were
    an ingot of silver, slain and cut in pieces. When the Khalif saw
    this, he was sore enraged and afflicted; the tears ran down his
    cheeks and he turned to Jaafer and said, "O dog of a Vizier,
    shall folk be murdered in my capital city and thrown into the
    river and their death laid to my account on the Day of Judgment?
    I must avenge this woman on her murderer and put him to death
    without mercy! And as surely as I am descended from the sons of
    Abbas, an thou bring me not him who slew her, that I may do her
    justice on him, I will hang thee and forty of thy kinsmen at the
    gate of my palace!' Quoth Jaafer, 'Grant me three days' respite.'
    And the Khalif said, 'I grant thee this.' So Jaafer went out from
    before him and returned to his house, full of sorrow and saying
    to himself, 'How shall I find him who killed the damsel, that I
    may bring him before the Khalif? If I bring other than the right
    man, it will be laid to my charge by God. Indeed, I know not what
    to do.' Then he kept his house three days, and on the fourth day,
    the Khalif sent one of his chamberlains for him and said to him,
    'Where is the murderer of the damsel?' 'O Commander of the
    Faithful,' replied the Vizier, 'am I inspector of murdered folk,
    that I should know who killed her?' The Khalif was enraged at his
    answer and commanded to hang him before his palace-gate and that
    proclamation should be made in the streets of Baghdad, 'Whoso
    hath a mind to witness the hanging of Jaafer the Barmecide,
    Vizier of the Khalif, and of forty of his kin, before the gate of
    the Khalif's palace, let him come out to see!' So the people came
    out from all quarters to witness the execution of Jaafer and his
    kinsmen, not knowing the reason. Then they set up the gallows and
    made Jaafer and the others stand underneath in readiness; but
    whilst they awaited the Khalif's signal for the execution and the
    people wept for Jaafer and his kinsmen, behold, a handsome and
    well-dressed young man, with shining face and bright black eyes,
    flower-white forehead, downy whiskers and rosy cheeks and a mole
    like a grain of ambergris, pressed through the crowd, till he
    stood before Jaafer and said to him, 'I come to deliver thee from
    this strait, O chief of the Amirs and refuge of the poor! I am he
    who killed the woman ye found in the chest; so hang me for her
    and do her justice on me!' When Jaafer heard this, he rejoiced at
    his own deliverance, but grieved for the young man; and whilst
    they were yet talking, behold, a man far advanced in years made
    his way when he saluted them and said, 'O Vizier and noble lord,
    credit not what this young man says. None killed the damsel but
    I; so do thou avenge her on me, or I do accuse thee before God
    the Most High.' Then said the youth, 'O Vizier, this is a doting
    old man, who knows not what he says: it was I killed her, so do
    thou avenge her on me.' 'O my son,' said the old man, 'thou art
    young and desirest the things of the world, and I am old and
    weary of the world. I will ransom thee and the Vizier and his
    kinsmen with my life. None killed the damsel but I; so God on
    thee, make haste to hang me, or there is no living for me after
    her!' The Vizier marvelled at all this and taking the youth and
    the old man, carried them before the Khalif and said to him, 'O
    Commander of the Faithful, I bring thee the murderer of the
    damsel.' 'Where is he?' asked the Khalif, and Jaafer answered,
    'This youth says he killed her, but this old man gives him the
    lie and affirms that he himself killed her: and behold, they are
    both in thy hands.' The Khalif looked at them and said, 'Which of
    you killed the damsel?' The youth replied, 'It was I.' And the
    old man, 'Indeed, none killed her but myself.' Then the Khalif
    said to Jaafer, 'Take them and hang them both.' But the Vizier
    replied, 'If one of them be the murderer, to hang the other were
    unjust.' 'By Him who vaulted the heavens and spread out the earth
    like a carpet,' cried the youth, 'it was I killed her!' And he
    set forth the circumstance of her death and how they had found
    her body, so that the Khalif was certified that he was the
    murderer, whereat he wondered and said to him, 'Why didst thou
    slay the damsel wrongfully and what made thee come and accuse
    thyself thus and confess thy crime without being beaten?' 'Know,
    O Commander of the Faithful,' answered the young man, 'that this
    damsel was my wife and the daughter of this old man, who is my
    father's brother, and she was a virgin when I married her. God
    blessed me with three male children by her, and she loved me and
    served me, and I also loved her with an exceeding love and saw no
    evil in her. We lived happily together till the beginning of this
    month, when she fell grievously ill. I fetched the doctors to her
    and she recovered slowly; and I would have had her take a bath;
    but she said, "There is something I long for, before I go to the
    bath." "What is it?" asked I, and she replied, "I have a longing
    for an apple, that I may smell it and bite a piece of it." So I
    went out into the city at once and sought for apples, but could
    find none, though, had they been a dinar apiece, I would have
    bought them. I was vexed at this and went home and said to my
    wife, "By Allah, my cousin, I can find none." She was distressed,
    being yet weak, and her weakness increased greatly on her that
    night, and I passed the night full of anxiety. As soon as it was
    day, I went out again and made the round of the gardens, but
    could find no apples anywhere. At last I met an old gardener, of
    whom I enquired for them, and he said to me, "O my son, this
    fruit is rare with us and is not now to be found but in the
    garden of the Commander of the Faithful at Bassora, where the
    gardener keeps them for the Khalif's table.' I returned home,
    troubled at my ill-success, and my love and concern for her moved
    me to undertake the journey to Bassora. So I set out and
    travelled thither and bought three apples of the gardener there
    for three dinars, with which I returned to Baghdad, after having
    been absent fifteen days and nights, going and coming. I went in
    to my wife and gave her the apples; but she took no pleasure in
    them and let them lie by her side; for weakness and fever had
    increased on her and did not leave her for ten days, at the end
    of which time she began to mend. So I left the house and went to
    my shop, where I sat buying and selling. About mid-day a great
    ugly black slave came into the bazaar, having in his hand one of
    the three apples, with which he was playing; so I called to him
    and said, "Prithee, good slave, tell me whence thou hadst that
    apple, that I may get the fellow to it." He laughed and answered,
    "I had it of my mistress; for I had been absent and on my return
    I found her lying ill, with three apples by her side: and she
    told me that the cuckold her husband had made a journey for them
    to Bassora, where he had bought them for three dinars. So I ate
    and drank with her and took this one from her." When I heard
    this, the world grew black in my eyes, and I rose and shut my
    shop and went home, beside myself for excess of rage. I looked
    for the apples and finding but two of them, said to my wife,
    "Where is the third apple?" Quoth she, "I know not what is come
    of it." This convinced me of the truth of the slave's story, so I
    took a knife and coming behind her, without word said, got up on
    her breast and cut her throat; after which I hewed her in pieces
    and wrapping her in her veil and a piece of carpet, sewed the
    whole up hurriedly in the basket. Then I put the basket in the
    chest and locking it up, set it on my mule and threw it into the
    Tigris with my own hands. So, God on thee, O Commander of the
    Faithful, make haste to hang me, for I fear lest she sue for
    vengeance on me at the Day of Resurrection! For when I had thrown
    her into the river, unknown of any, I returned home and found my
    eldest boy weeping, though he knew not what I had done with his
    mother; and I said to him "Why dost thou weep, my son?" He
    replied, "I took one of my mother's apples and went down with it
    into the street to play with my brothers, when lo, a tall black
    slave snatched it from my hand, saying, 'Whence hadst thou this?'
    Quoth I, 'My father journeyed to Bassora for it and brought it to
    my mother, who is ill, with two other apples for which he paid
    three dinars. Give it back to me and do not get me into trouble
    for it.' He paid no heed to my words and I demanded the apple a
    second and a third time; but he beat me and went away with it. I
    was afraid that my mother would beat me on account of the apple;
    so for fear of her, I went without the city with my brothers and
    abode there until night closed in upon us, and indeed I am in
    fear of her: so by Allah, O my father, say nothing to her of
    this, or it will add to her illness." When I heard what the child
    said, I knew that the slave was he who had forged a lie against
    my wife and was certified that I had killed her wrongfully. So I
    wept sore, and presently, this old man, her father, came in and I
    told him what had passed; and he sat down by my side and wept and
    we ceased not weeping half the night. This was five days ago and
    from that time to this, we have never ceased to bewail her and
    mourn for her, sorrowing sore for that she was unjustly put to
    death. All this came of the lying story of the slave, and this
    was the manner of my killing her; so I conjure thee, by the
    honour of thy forefathers, make haste to kill me and do her
    justice on me, for there is no living for me after her.' The
    Khalif wondered at his story and said, 'By Allah, the young man
    is excusable, and I will hang none but the accursed slave!' Then
    he fumed to Jaafer and said to him, 'Bring me the accursed slave,
    who was the cause of this calamity, and if thou bring him not in
    three days, thou shalt suffer in his stead.' And Jaafer went out,
    weeping and saying, 'Verily, I am beset by deaths; the pitcher
    does not come off for aye unbroken. I can do nothing in this
    matter; but He who saved me the first time may save me again. By
    Allah, I will not leave my house during the three days that
    remain to me, and God who is the Truth shall do what He will.' So
    he kept his house three days, and on the fourth day, he summoned
    Cadis and witnesses and made his last dispositions and bade
    farewell to his children, weeping. Presently in came a messenger
    from the Khalif and said to him, 'The Commander of the Faithful
    is beyond measure wroth and sends to seek thee and swears that
    the day shall not pass without thy being hanged.' When Jaafer
    heard this, he wept and his children and slaves and all that were
    in the house wept with him. Then they brought him his little
    daughter, that he might bid her farewell. Now he loved her more
    than all his other children; so he pressed her to his breast and
    kissed her and wept over his separation from her; when lo, he
    felt something round in her bosom and said to her, 'What's this
    in thy bosom?' 'O my father,' answered she, 'it is an apple with
    the name of our lord the Khalif written on it. Our slave Rihan
    brought it to me four days ago and would not let me have it, till
    I gave him two dinars for it.' When Jaafer heard this, he put his
    hand into her bosom and took out the apple and knew it and
    rejoiced, saying, 'O swift Dispeller of trouble[FN#59]!' Then he
    sent for the slave and said to him, 'Harkye Rihan, whence hadst
    thou this apple?' 'By Allah, O my lord,' replied he, 'though
    lying might get me off, yet is it safer to tell the truth[FN#60]!
    I did not steal it from thy palace nor from the palace of His
    Highness nor the garden of the Commander of the Faithful. The
    fact is that some days ago, I was passing along a certain alley
    of this city, when I saw some children playing and this apple in
    the hand of one of them. So I snatched it from him, and he wept
    and said, "O youth, this apple is my mother's and she is ill. She
    longed for apples, and my father journeyed to Bassora and bought
    her three for three dinars, and I took one of them to play with."
    But I paid no heed to what he said and beat him and went off with
    the apple and sold it to my little mistress for two dinars.' When
    Jaafer heard this, he wondered that the death of the damsel and
    all this misery should have been caused by his slave and grieved
    for the relation of the slave to himself, whilst rejoicing over
    his own delivery: and he repeated the following verses:

    If through a servant misfortune befall thee, Spare not to save
    thine own life at his cost.
    Servants in plenty thou'lt find to replace him, Life for life
    never, once it is lost.

    Then he carried the slave to the Khalif, to whom he related the
    whole story; and the Khalif wondered greatly and laughed till he
    fell backward and ordered the story to be recorded and published
    among the folk. Then said Jaafer, 'O Commander of the Faithful,
    wonder not at this story, for it is not more marvellous than that
    of Noureddin Ali of Cairo and his son Bedreddin Hassan.' 'What is
    that?' asked the Khalif; 'and how can it be more marvellous than
    this story?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered Jaafer, 'I
    will not tell it thee except thou pardon my slave.' Quoth the
    Khalif, 'If it be indeed more marvellous than that of the three
    apples, I grant thee thy slave's life; but if not, I will kill
    him.' 'Know, then, O Commander of the Faithful,' said Jaafer,
    'that
